TPC STUDENT HANDBOOK v.04 
PREFACE 
This handbook will highlight not only the academic policies of the school but also the history, vision, mission, goals, objectives, philosophy, the facilities and services and all other relevant information that parents and students need to know about Talibon Polytechnic College. 
Talibon Polytechnic College greets you and your children. The administration, teachers and staff believe that your child has gained enough learnings from different sources. You, as parents have nurtured and guided them well as part of their advancement and growth. We, the second parents in school are so grateful to you for entrusting your children to TPC. We always do our best to support in the formation of their inner selves as instrument for local and national development. 
Let us collaborate to put into action the vision, mission of the school. You can come to the school anytime you wish and share your ideas and noble thoughts to usher our students towards a very productive and memorable education experience. 
This handbook has been prepared to acquaint you with the policies of the school. We encourage you to read this handbook thoroughly so that violations can be avoided. Hopefully, Talibon Polytechnic College can produce citizen worthy to replicate the deeds of our heroes; thus, become the agents of change and make a difference. 
PREFACE     MESSAGE FROM THE MUNICIPAL MAYOR  	5 VISION, MISSION, GOALS, CORE VALUES 	 6 GRADUATE ATTRIBUTES AND OUTCOMES  	7 SCHOOL SEAL 	 	 	 	 	7 BRIEF HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE   	9 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART 	 	 	 	10 ARTICLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS  	 	14  	Chapter 1 PRELIMINARY MATTERS  	15  	Chapter 2 DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES 16  	Chapter 3 STUDENTS’ RIGHTS  	 	     AND OBLIGATIONS 	 	17 ARTICLE II ACADEMIC RULES, PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS 	 	 	 	22  	Chapter 1 ADMISSION POLICIES 	 	22  	Chapter 2 ADMISSION TEST  	 	22  	Chapter 3 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 	23  	Chapter 4 REGISTRATION/ENROLMENT        	 	     POLICIES  	 	 	25
 	Chapter 5 ACADEMIC INFORMATION 	26  	Chapter 6 GRADING SYSTEM 	 	41  	Chapter 7 GRADUATION 	 	 	41
 	Chapter 8 TRANSFER CREDENTIALS 	44  	Chapter 9 RETENTION POLICIES 	 	45  	Chapter 10 ADMISSION/ENROLMENT  	 	       PROCESS     	 	 	46  	Chapter 11 COLLEGE ADMISSION AND  	 	       ENROLLMENT POLICY FOR                              PERSONS WITH DISABILITY  	 	      (PWD) AND SOLO PARENTS 	48
ARTICLE III STUDENT SERVICES 	 	 	53
 	Chapter 1 Library Services 	 	 	53
 	Chapter 2 Health Services 	 	 	57
 	Chapter 3 GUIDANCE AND COUNSELING 60
 	Chapter 4 CANTEEN/FOOD SERVICES 	63
 	Chapter 5 SCHOLARSHIP UNIT 	 	64
 	Chapter 6 SAFETY AND SECURITY  	65
 	Chapter 7 SPORTS AND ATHLETICS  	71
 	Chapter 8 ARTS AND CULTURAL 	 	72
 	Chapter 9 STUDENT AFFAIRS AND 
 	 	     SERVICES  	 	 	76
ARTICLE IV CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE 	 	101
 	Chapter 1 PRELIMINARY 	 	 	101
 	Chapter 2 NORMS OF CONDUCT 	 	104
 	Chapter 3 NON-ACADEMIC POLICY  	105
 	Chapter 4 GROUNDS OF DISCIPLINARY 
 	 	     ACTIONS AND SANCTIONS   	110
ARTICLE V ADMINISTRATIVE DUE PROCESS 	120
ARTICLE VI THE OFFICE OF TREASURER  	136
ARTICLE VII THE OFFICE OF THE COLLEGE 
 	         REGISTRAR 	 	 	 	136
ARTICLE VIII EDUCATION TOUR/FIELD
 	          POLICIES AND GUIDELINE 	 	137
ARTICLE IX ON THE JOB TRAINING/PRACTICUM/  	        INTERNSHIP POLICIES AND 
 	        GUIDELINE 	 	 	 	142
ARTICLE X TRANSITORY PROVISIONS 	 	146
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE DATA 
 	PRIVACY CONSENT FORM  	 	147
STUDENT-RELATED LAW AND MEMORANDA 	155
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE COURSES 
AND PROGRAMS OFFERED  	 	 	157
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE PROSPECTUS 158
 	Bachelor of Arts in English Language (BAEL)158
 	Bachelor of Arts in Political Science (BAPoS) 161
 	Bachelor of Science in Agriculture 	 	164
 	Bachelor of Science in Accounting   
 	Information System (BSAIS)  	 	168
 	Bachelor of Science in Criminology  	171
 	Bachelor of Science in Information 
 	Systems (BSIS) 	 	 	 	175
 	Bachelor of Early Childhood 
 	Education (BECEd) 	 	 	 	178
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE HYMN  	182
REVISION HISTORY  	 	 	 	183
STUDENT HANDBOOK REVISION COMMITTEE 	184
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE POLICY AND 
GUIDELINES FOR LOCAL OFF CAMPUS 
ACTIVITIES 	 	 	 	 	 	185
 	ARTICLE I PURPOSE  	 	 	185
 	ARTICLE II DEFINITION OF TERMS  	186
 	ARTICLE III OBJECTIVES 	 	 	189
 	ARTICLE IV GENERAL RULES 	 	190
 	ARTICLE V REQUIREMENTS  	 	193
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE SCHOOL 
UNIFORM 	 	 	 	 	 	197
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE SCHOOL 
UNIFORM (CRIMINOLOGY TYPE A)  	 	198
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE SCHOOL 
UNIFORM (CRIMINOLOGY TYPE B)  	 	199
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE SCHOOL 
UNIFORM (CRIMINOLOGY TYPE C)  	 	200
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE DRESS CODE 201
STUDENT’S PLEDGE  	 	 	 	202
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 	 	 	 	203
 
 
VISION, MISSION, CORE VALUES, 
INSTITUTIONAL GOALS, GRADUATE ATTRIBUTES AND OUTCOMES 
VISION 
An 	institution 	committed 	to 	provide 	quality educational opportunities and academic programs that empower 	students 	to 	become 	competitive 	and responsive to the needs of the community
MISSION 
To provide quality educational opportunities and support services, strengthen innovative research and extension, and produce competent individuals in technological and professional fields for community transformation and development
GOALS 
1.	Continue development through research, extension, and production in collaboration with stakeholders;
2.	Provide technical and professional education that meets the standards of excellence, locally and globally;
3.	Ensure curricular offerings are responsive to the needs of the community and the nation in order to be globally competitive;
4.	Uphold at all times good governance and quality management through collaboration, accountability, transparency, and adherence to the legal and moral standards.
CORE VALUES 
C – Christ-Centered
H – Honest 
U – United 
R – Responsive C – Competent 
H – Humane 
GRADUATE ATTRIBUTES AND OUTCOMES 
Graduate attributes are the skills, knowledge, and qualities that students should acquire and develop during their stay here at Talibon Polytechnic College. These attributes reflect the desired outcomes that would prepare students for success in their chosen careers and in life. 
INSTITUTIONAL 
GRADUATE 
ATTRIBUTES (IGA) 	INSTITUTIONAL 
GRADUATE OUTCOMES 
(IGO) 
1. Critical Thinking and ProblemSolving Skills 	Analyze complex issues, evaluate information, and develop innovative solutions to problems. 
2. Communication Skills	Effectively and efficiently express ideas and 
information through 
written, oral, and visual means. Students 
communicate clearly and 
professionally with different audiences. 

3. Collaboration and Teamwork 	Work effectually in diverse teams, demonstrating respect, active 
participation, and the 
ability to contribute to shared goals. 
4. Ethical and
Social 
Responsibility 	Understand and demonstrate ethical behavior, social 
responsibility, and a 
commitment to sustainable practices. Students should 
consider the impact of their actions on individuals, communities, and the environment. 
5. Global and
Cultural awareness 	Demonstrate an appreciation and 
understanding of different 
cultures, perspectives, and global issues. 
6. Information Literacy	Possess the ability to locate, evaluate, and 
effectively use information from different sources. 
7. Lifelong Learning	Equipped with skills and motivation to engage in 
continuous learning, adapt to new technologies and 
ideas, and pursue personal and professional 
development throughout their lives. 
8. Leadership and
Initiative 	Exhibit leadership qualities, take initiative, and exhibit the ability to motivate and inspire others. 
9. Entrepreneurship and
Innovation 	Possess an entrepreneurial mindset, be open to new 
ideas, and have the ability to innovate and create new opportunities through research. 
10. Professionalism	Develop skills and attributes necessary to succeed in 
their chosen professions, 
including polite behavior, 
adaptability, resilience, and the ability to navigate the evolving job market. 
SCHOOL SEAL 
 
Laurel Leaves - The Laurel leaves represent the achievements and glory that every young and intelligent TPC student has gained and will continuously reap in the future. 
Yellow Triangle - The yellow-colored triangle symbolizes the interplay and interdependence of the institution with our Local Government Unit and other stakeholders, fostering a healthy relationship that reflects the values of the institution. 
Book - The book symbolizes wisdom and education. It represents the institution’s commitment to academic excellence and the continued pursuit of knowledge. 
Flaming Torch - The flaming torch represents wisdom, enlightenment, truth, and intellectual optimism; this symbolizes the belief that the light of truth and reason overcomes the darkness of ignorance. 
Half Circle with Insignia - Technology, Environment, and Humanity: The half circle on each side of the triangle represents the institution-focused point adaptation of the current trends in technology, helping the community and environment, and for the good and welfare of humanity. This semi-circle engages collaboration and communication that will enhance learning. 
White Bird - The white bird at the center of the logo represents innocence, purity, and spirituality. The white bird plays an important role, as TPC expands and explore greater heights in education. 
BRIEF HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE 
Talibon Polytechnic College (TPC) was established by Municipal Ordinance No. 2017-07. This was signed by Hon. Mayor Restituto B. Auxtero on July 17, 2017.This was sponsored by Hon. Councilor Janette Aurestila Garcia and signed by Hon. Vice Mayor Cleto R. Garcia, SB Chairman. 
 
On July 21, 2017, Mayor Auxtero, Councilor Janette A. Garcia with Treasurer Rosalina G. Felisilda and consultants Dr. Mario E. Rodriguez and Dr. Lolita D. Rodriguez went to CHED Region VII, Cebu to give the letter of Intent to Dr. Freddie T. Bernal. 
On May 10-11, 2018, Dr. Virginia dela Peña, with five (5) other Regional Quality Assurance Team (RQAT) members inspected TPC Programs: Bachelor of Science in Agriculture, Bachelor of Science in  Accounting Information System, and Bachelor of Science in Information Systems. 
On May 24-25, 2018, another four (4) RQAT members came and inspected the Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Bachelor of Arts English Language. All with positive and inspiring comments. 
Compliance for the minimum requirements of CHED including the enrolment of 176 students during the First Semester, AY 2018-2019 were submitted for final scrutiny and approval or grant of Authority for the five (5) degree programs inspected by the RQAT. 
CHEDRO VII Order Numbers 005 & 006, Series of 2018 granting Government Authority to Operate BA Political Science and BA English Language were issued to Talibon Polytechnic College, School of Liberal Studies on November 25, 2018. 
On March 15, 2019 the three (3) remaining courses were granted Government Authority to Operate. Bachelor of Science in Agriculture, (Government Permit No. 001 Series of 2019); Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information System (Government Permit No. 002 Series of 2019); and Bachelor of Science in Information Systems (Government Permit No. 003 Series of 2019). 
Talibon Polytechnic College was granted Certificate of Eligibility to avail of the benefits of Republic Act 10931 otherwise known as the Universal Access to Quality Education Act. It has complied with the requirements for Institutional Recognition by virtue of the Commission en banc Resolution No. 564-2020. The full recognition was granted last December 7, 2020. 
Highlighting one of our most notable achievements by far on this journey is the attainment of continuous accreditation. We understand that this recognition is not just a badge of honor, rather it is a testament to our unceasing pursuit of educational excellence. Through rigorous self- assessment and tireless improvement, we aim to exceed the standards set by accrediting bodies, reflecting our dedication to raising the bar in education. 
In recent years, our dedication has been acknowledged with great pride. We are thrilled to announce that we have been granted Institutional Recognition by the Commission on Higher Education, a significant achievement underscored by Commission en banc Resolution No. 564- 2020. This recognition serves as a reminder that our efforts are valued and our commitment to quality education is recognized on a national level. 
Furthermore, the dedication of our administration, faculty, staff, and students has led to the acquisition of the Certificate of Program Compliance for all five of our esteemed programs. This is a remarkable feat that showcases the cohesion and excellence within our academic offerings. It is a testament to the hard work, innovation, and adaptability that define us as an institution. 
Below are the COPC numbers and series respectively; 
PROGRAM 	NUMBER 	SERIES 
Bachelor of Arts in English 
Language (BAEL) 	075 	2022 
Bachelor of Arts in Political 
Science (BAPS) 	081 	2022 
Bachelor of Science in 
Information Systems (BSIS) 	019 	2022 
Bachelor of Science in 
Accounting 
Information System 
(BSAIS) 	033 	2022 
Bachelor of Science in 
Agriculture (BSA) 	027 	2022 
Bachelor in Early Childhood 
Education (BECEd) 	001 	2025 
Bachelor of Science in 
Criminology (BSCrim) 	036 	2025 
As we continue this journey of growth and development, we remain steadfast in our commitment to nurturing minds, fostering excellence, preparing individuals to make a positive impact on society. Our story is one of continuous progress, and we are excited to embrace the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead as we shape the future of education together 
 
TPC STUDENT HANDBOOK v.04 
 
ARTICLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Chapter 1 PRELIMINARY MATTERS 
Section 1. This document shall be called and known as the “Talibon Polytechnic College Student Manual.” 
Section 2. Coverage – This Manual shall apply to and govern all bonafide students in all level and curricula of Talibon Polytechnic College. 
Section 3. Purpose – This Manual is intended primarily to serve as a guide to student conduct and matters affecting student life. 
Section 4. Interpretation – All provisions of this Manual shall, in case of conflict or ambiguity, be interpreted in favor of the students. 
Section 5. Definitions of Terms – The terms as used in this Student Manual are defined as follows: 
TPC refers to the Talibon Polytechnic College. 
President refers to the highest official of TPC 
Director of Student Affairs and Services refers to the officer designated to oversee the operation of the different units in-charge of student personnel services in TPC. 
Recognition/Accreditation means the authority to operate at TPC granted to student organizations by authority of the President. 
Student Organization means a group of students bound by common organizational objectives through programs and activities. It includes any association, club, society, order or any other form of organized groups whose members are students of TPC. 
Recognized/Accredited Student Organization refers to any student organization which after meeting all necessary requirements as prescribed under this Student Manual is granted the authority to operate by the President. 
Student Supreme Government refers to the highest official body governing the student body politics. 
Chapter 2 DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES 
Section 1. TPC recognizes the vital role of the youth in nation-building and shall promote and protect their physical, moral, spiritual, intellectual and social well-being. 
Section 2. TPC shall respect the inherent individual and collective rights of students subject to limitations as provided by law, public policy and acceptable customs and traditions. 
Section 3. TPC shall protect and promote the right to quality education of all students and to take appropriate measures to make such education accessible. 
Section 4. No student shall be discriminated against by virtue of his birth, sex, religion, socio-economic status and political beliefs and aspirations. 
 Section 5. Students shall be guaranteed participation and initiative in matters affecting their well-being. 
Section 6. All students shall uphold the academic integrity of TPC and shall conduct themselves in accordance with established rules and regulations and acceptable norms of society. 
Chapter 3 STUDENTS’ RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS 
Section 1. Rights – The following rights under the Philippine Constitution and the Education Act of 1982 shall be guaranteed to every bona fide student of TPC: 
A.	Rights under the New Constitution: 
1.	The right to due process of law;
2.	The right to equal protection of the laws;
3.	The right against unreasonable search and seizure and illegal arrest;
4.	The right to privacy of communication and correspondence;
5.	The freedom of speech and of expression;
6.	The right to peaceably assemble and petition the government for redress of grievances;
7.	The right to free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and worship;
8.	The right to information;
9.	The right to form organization or associations;
10.	The right to effective and reasonable participation in matters affecting their welfare and student life;
11.	The right to academic freedom within the limitations as provided by law;
12.	The right to suffrage;
13.	The right to health;
14.	The right to quality education;
15.	The right to select a profession or course of study subject to fair, reasonable and equitable admission and academic requirements;
16.	The right to a balance and healthful ecology in accordance with the rhythm and harmony with nature; and
17.	All other rights guaranteed under the Constitution not mentioned above.
B.	Rights under the Education Act of 1982: 
1.	The right to receive primarily through competent instruction, relevant quality education in line with national goals and conducive to their full development as persons with human dignity;
2.	The right to freely choose their field of study and to continue their course therein up to graduation, except in case of academic deficiency, or violation of disciplinary regulations;
3.	The right to school guidance and counseling services for making decisions and selecting the alternatives of work suit ed to his/her
potentialities;
4.	The right to access to his/her own school records, the confidentiality of which the University shall maintain and pre serve;
5.	The right to issuance of official certificates, diploma, transcript of records, transfer credentials and other similar documents within thirty days from request;
6.	The right to publish a student newspaper and similar publications, as well as the right to invite resource persons during assemblies, symposia and other activities of similar nature; 
7.	The right to free expression of opinion and suggestions, and to effective channels of communication with appropriate academic and administrative bodies of the college;
8.	The right to form, establish, join and participate in organizations and societies recognized by the school to foster their intellectual, cultural, spiritual and physical growth and development, or to form, establish join and maintain organizations and societies for purposes not contrary to law;
9.	The right to participate in the formulation and development of policies affecting the schools in relation to the locality/ region, and nation through representation in the appropriate body/bodies of the school to be determined by the Governing Board; and
10.	The right to be free from involuntary contributions, except those approved by their own organizations or societies.
Section 2. Obligations. A bonafide student of the College shall be covered by all obligations as a citizen mandated in the New Constitution and those stated under Education Act of 1982 as follows: 
1.	To render personal, military or civil service under conditions provided by law;
2.	To develop patriotism and nationalism, love of humanity, respect for human rights and appreciation of the role of nation heroes in the historical development of the country;
3.	To understand the rights and accept the duties of citizen ship, strengthen his/her ethical and spiritual values, develop moral character and personal discipline, critical and creative thinking; 
4.	To exert his/her utmost to develop his/her potential for service, particularly, by undergoing an education suited to his/her abilities, in order that he/she may become an asset to his/her family and to society;
5.	To uphold the academic integrity of the school, endeavor to achieve academic excellence and abide by the rules and regulations governing his/her academic responsibilities and moral integrity;
6.	To promote and maintain the peace and tranquility of the school by observing the rules of discipline, and by exerting effort to attain harmonious relationships with fellow students, the teaching and academic staff and other personnel;
7.	To participate actively in civil affairs and in the promotion of the general welfare, particularly in the social, economic and cultural development of his/her community and in the attainment of a just, compassionate and orderly society;
8.	To exercise his/her rights responsibly in the knowledge that he/she is answerable for any infringement or violation of the public welfare and the rights of others;
9.	To strive to lead an upright, virtuous and useful life;
10.	To love, respect, and obey his/her parents, and cooperate with them to maintain the family solidarity;
11.	To respect the customs and traditions of our people, the duly constituted authorities, the aims of our country and the principles of democracy.
12.	To help in the observance and exercise of individual and society rights, the strengthening of freedom everywhere, the fostering of cooperation among nations in the pursuit of progress, prosperity and world peace. 
ARTICLE II ACADEMIC RULES, PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS 
Chapter 1 ADMISSION POLICIES 
Section 1. Graduates of recognized private and public high school may be admitted to Talibon Polytechnic College without any regard of age, gender, religion or race. 
Section 2. The Committee on Admission of the college is tasked to screen the credentials of the applicants. 
Section 3. Talibon Polytechnic College reserves the right to refuse any applicant whose qualifications do not meet the standards of the school. 
Chapter 2 ADMISSION TEST 
Section 1. All applicants for admission to Talibon Polytechnic College for all the degree programs shall take the TPC Admission Test. 
Section 2. The TPC Admission Test is a standardized test requiring careful attention to instructions and time limits. It is designed to provide convenient, objectively-scorable measure of general cognitive ability or intelligence in the form of a profile containing five verbal (Information, Comprehension, Arithmetic, Similarities and Vocabulary) and five performances (Digital Symbol, Picture Completion, Spatial, Picture Arrangement and Object Assembly) subtest scores. 
Chapter 3 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 
A. Freshmen students 
1.	TPC Admission Test Result
2.	Duly signed Senior High School Report Card (Form 138) or Form 127 (Original Copy)
3.	Certificate of Good Moral Character (Original Copy)
4.	Birth Certificate (PSA Original Authenticated)- 1 copy
5.	Six (4) copies of recent 2x2 pictures (Registrar, ROTC, IT, Program/Department), 1 copy of 1x1 picture for library.
6.	Accomplished Personal Data Sheet (Online Registration Form)
7.	Long Brown Envelope (2 pcs. for the Registrar’s Office and for the Department/Program Office)
8.	Long White Folder (2 pcs. for the Registrar’s Office and for the Department/Program Office)
B. Transferees/Second Coursers 
1.	Honorable Dismissal / Transfer Credential from the last school attended together with Students Transcript of records for evaluation
2.	Certificate of good moral character from school last attended
3.	Birth Certificate (PSA Original Authenticated)- 1 copy
4.	Six (4) copies of recent 2x2 pictures (Registrar, ROTC, IT, Program/Department), 1 copy of 1x1 picture for library.
5.	Accomplished Personal Data Sheet
6.	Long Brown Envelope (2 pcs. for the Registrar’s
Office and for the Department/Program Office)
7.	Long White Folder (2 pcs. for the Registrar’s Office and for the Department/Program Office)
C. Cross enrollees 
1. Cross registration permit
D. Continuing students 
1.	Grade Slip from the Office of the Registrar for evaluation.
2.	Examination Permit issued by OSAS (Final examination of the last semester attended)
3.	Duly signed Clinic Form
4.	Program/Department Evaluation Form duly signed and filed up. Student must secure a copy of their grade slip from the Registrar’s Office for evaluation.
E. Shiftees 
1.	Shiftees leaving one program to transfer to another program within the college should accomplish the appropriate shifting form duly signed by the Program Heads, Registrar and VPAA.
2.	Shiftees are required to comply clearance from the previous department.
3.	Shiftees should request Student’s Evaluation from the Registrar and submit a copy to the Dean for proper loading of courses.
F. Returnees 
1.	Returnees are those students previously enrolled in TPC.
2.	Returnees are subject to the Admission Policies enforced at the time they return except the placement examination.
3.	Returnees should request Student’s Evaluation from the Registrar and submit a copy to the Dean for proper loading of courses.
G. Foreign student 
1.	Philippine–born alien students must submit photocopy of their Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) and Native – Born Certificate of Registration
(NBCR) which must be certified against the original by the Director of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), Regional Office VII.
2.	Children of naturalized Filipino citizens must submit a copy of the Identification Certificate issued by the Commission on Immigration, certified against the original by the Director of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), Regional Office VII.
3.	Filipino citizens whose family names are of foreign origin must submit their certificate issued by the Local Civil Registrar. Foreign - born alien students must submit a photocopy of their Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) which must be certified against the original by the Director of the Commission on Higher Education Regional Office
VII.
Chapter 4
REGISTRATION/ENROLMENT POLICIES 
Section 1. Registration of students shall only be on the regular registration period indicated in the academic calendar. 
Section 2. A student must be officially registered in order to receive credit for course work. 
Section 3. A student is considered officially enrolled when he/she has the Certificate of Registration duly validated by the Registrar. 
Section 4. An admission slip/clearance or report of grades showing the scholastic standing of an old student is required as a credential for enrollment. 
Section 5. A student is not allowed to enroll in more than one course during his stay in the College. 
Section 6. Rules on sequencing of subjects (prerequisites) in a curriculum are observed and followed in enrollment. 
Section 7. Registration of a returning student is dependent on his previous scholastic standing. All subjects taken from previous school where the same course description and units have been automatically credited. 
Chapter 5 ACADEMIC INFORMATION 
A. Academic Load 
Section 1. The study load of a regular student is the number of units prescribed by the curriculum in which the student is enrolled. 
Section 2. A student is considered full time or carrying a full load when he carries all subjects prescribed in his curriculum for a particular school semester. 
Section 3. Students should follow the study load prescribed by his/her curricula or as assigned and approved by his/her respective Deans and Registrar. 
Section 4. During Summer Term, a student may register only in nine (9) units, except for graduating students who shall be allowed a higher load not exceeding 12 units. 
Section 5. Only graduating students are allowed to overload, subject to their academic standing. 
Section 6. A graduating student may be permitted to carry a heavier load but not to exceed 27 units subject upon to the approval by authorities concerned. 
Section 7. Students who are scholastic delinquents are not allowed to have an overload. 
Section 8. Teacher Education students taking up practice teaching are allowed to overload or have other subjects taken alongside with practice teaching not more than six (6) units. 
Section 9. Load of transfer students shall be limited only to those subjects without prerequisite, until such time this subject had already been validated/accredited. 
Section 10. The Dean/Program Head may limit the academic load of student who are employed outside the institution whether full time or part time. (MORPHE guidelines, specifically Article XIX, Section 92, allow for a maximum overload of six units for graduating students, as stated in CMO 104, s. 2017, Section 12. A student intern can take other subjects with a maximum of six units during the internship period and/or according to the Institution’s 
policy.) 
B. Changing/Adding/Dropping of Subjects 
Section 1. The students shall accomplish the prescribed form for changing, adding, and dropping after which he/she seeks the approval of the Dean. 
Section 2. The Registrar shall determine the schedule for changing adding and dropping of subjects. (commonly, 1st week of the start of classes/ 5 days from the start of classes) 
Section 3. The student shall then proceed to the Registrar’s Office for the issuance of the new Certificate of Registration 
(COR) 
C. Cross Enrollment 
Section 1. The term cross-enrolment refers to simultaneous enrolment in two schools within a semester. 
Section 2. No simultaneous enrolment in more than two schools allowed 
Section 3. A maximum of six (6) units may be taken from the school provided by the total number does not exceed the prescribed units in the curriculum. 
Section 4. Cross enrolment in other schools is allowed only when a student is a candidate for graduation or will do the internship/affiliation in the succeeding semester 
Section 5.  The graduating student must submit a letter of intent to cross-enroll at the Registrar Office noted by his/her respected Head and approved by the college Dean. 
Section 6. The Registrar will issue a permit to crossenrolment approval and evaluation. 
D. Shifting from Program to Another 
Section 1. Shiftees leaving one program to transfer to another program within the college should accomplish the appropriate shifting form duly signed by the Program Heads, Registrar and VPAA. 
Section 2. Shiftees are required to comply clearance from the previous department. 
Section 3. Shiftees should request Student’s Evaluation from the Registrar and submit a copy to the Dean for proper loading of courses. 
E. Withdrawal of the Course in the Program 
Section 1. Talibon Polytechnic College recognizes the right of student to withdraw from their subject or course due to valid reason provided he/she must pay the amount due of total school fees: 
1.	within 1 week of class from start of classes 10%
2.	within 2 weeks of class from start of classes 20%
3.	after 2 weeks of class from start of classes 100%
F. Validation of Subject/Transfer of Credits 
Section 1. A transferee student may apply for advanced credits or transfer of credits for work done in another Recognized Higher Education Institutions. 
Section 2. Subjects taken from other schools must be evaluated for subject credits equivalent to TPC subject credits 
Section 3. Course taken in other schools by transferees may be credited, provided that the number of units to be credited does not exceed 20% of the total number of units required in the program a TPC. 
Section 4. Only the grades in the courses taken in TPC shall be included in the computation of the Cumulative Grade Point Average (GCPA). 
Section 5. In order to graduate with honors, 80% of the total credits earned toward the degree must have been earned in residence at TPC. 
Section 6. Courses taken from another school should be credited on the first term of studies at TPC. No other course taken from another school may be credited subsequent to this approval. 
G. Pre-requisite of Subject/s 
Section 1. The rules on sequence of subjects in the curriculum of the course being taken must be followed. 
Section 2. Enrolling in and attendance in a subject without passing its prerequisite shall earn the student no academic credit. 
Section 3. Waiver of Prerequisite. Graduating student shall be allowed to take the prerequisite subject and higher subject simultaneously with the approval of the Dean and noted by the College Registrar. However, if the student failed the prerequisite subject, the higher subject shall not be given credit. (CHED Memorandum Order No. 40. S, 2008, re: Manual of Regulations for Private Higher Education [MORPHE], Section 92, upon the discretion of the higher education institution, a graduating student may be allowed additional subject-loads of not more than six [6] academic units in excess of the normal load prescribed by the Institution for the last school term. Likewise, a graduating student may, on a case-to-case basis, be allowed to take several Physical Education [PE] courses in a semester. The request for two [2] or more basic PE subjects should include the following information: 
1.	Name of student;
2.	Reasons justifying his failure to take PE in the preceding semesters;
3.	The class schedule and the schedule of the requested PE classes; and
4.	The endorsement of the Registrar with the statement
“Graduating upon completion of load.”
H. Request for the Offering of Non-Programmed Subject/s 
Section 1. Subjects not scheduled for a given term may be offered upon written request of at least fifteen (15) students for the undergraduate duly endorsed by the Dean/Program Head and approved by the VP for Academic Affairs to be noted by the College Registrar. Exception to the number of petitioners may be allowed under the following conditions: 1. The student is graduating during the term;
2.	When an old curriculum is superseded by the new curriculum;
3.	Failure of the student to take the subject/s is attributed to the institution; and
4.	The student is willing to pay fourteen (14) students fees with 175.00 per unit.
a. 3 units (subject units) x 175.00 per unit =
525.00 x 14 students = 7, 350.00
Section 2. The Vice President for Academic Affairs shall approve the request of non-programmed subjects provided that all provisions mentioned above are complied 
Section 3. The approved offering of non-programmed subject/s shall be transmitted to the Office of the registrar to be entered into the System for the Official Offering. 
Section 4. Procedures: 
1.	The concerned students, at least fifteen (15), shall write a formal letter addressed to the Vice President for Academic Affairs, and endorsed by the Dean/Program Head. Enumerated in the request letters are the names of requesting students, subjects requested, reasons of request and the instructor of the subjects. 
2.	The VP for Academic Affairs act on the request letter approved or disapproved.
3.	When approved, copy of the letter request, endorsement and approval will be forwarded to the Registrar’s Office for System encoding.
4.	The student will be issued the Certificate of Registration.
5.	The student shall pay the payable amount at the Municipal Treasurer’s Office in full amount or every major exam (prelim, midterm, semi-final and final exam).
I. Clearance 
Section 1. Student can secure clearance from the Registrar’s Office before the Final Examination of the 2nd Semester during the Academic Year and must completely secure all the required signatories. 
J. Examinations 
Section 1. The college has four (4) major examinations to assess the learning of student, Prelim, Midterm, Semi-final and Final Exams. 
Section 2. Students who are caught cheating or doing any similar acts in any examination test or quiz shall be punished in accordance with pertinent provisions of this Student Manual. 
Section 3. A student who has received a passing grade in a given course in not allowed reexamination for the purpose of improving his/her grades. 
K. Attendance 
Section 1. In accordance with the CHED Policy, students are allowed to be absent from their classes, excused or unexcused 20% of the total hours required per semester. Once the allowed number is exhausted the student is automatically dropped. Consideration in exceptional cases is given only by the Dean in consultation with the instructors concerned and approved by the VP Academic 
Affairs. 
Section 2. The number of minutes for a student to be late is 15 minutes. More than 15 minutes, the student is considered absent but allowed to attend the class subject to existing rules and guidelines. The best Judgment of the teacher is required to help the student. 
Section 3. Tardiness for three (3) times shall be considered as one (1) absence. 
Section 4. Absences are not excused. However, any consideration on special cases shall be decided by the teacher in consultation with the Dean of College. 
Section 5. Class hours lost by late registration/enrolment are considered absences. 
Section 6. In case where instructors/professors are late for class, student should not leave the classroom until the first third fraction of the scheduled class time has passed. Professors arriving late within the time schedule may mark students absent if they leave their classes earlier than the prescribed time. 
L. Residency 
Section 1. Students' enrolment for residency to be classified and considered as bonafide students. 
1.	The student updates his/her Student Profile by filling out TPC Information Sheet.
2.	The student informs/contacts the Program Adviser that she/he is enrolling for residency: Academic/Non- Academic.
3.	The Program Adviser does advising through face to face or online.
4.	The student informs the Office of the College Registrar to facilitate the enrolment process for residency.
5.	The Registrar's Office reviews the student's records before enlisting the student.
6.	If the student has completed the enrolment process, the residency status is granted.
Section 2. The undergraduate residency comes in two forms-the Academic Residency and the Non-Academic Residency. Those who are on academic residency are deemed as bonafide students for the covered term. Students on residency will have their IDs validated for the covered term. 
Section 3. The Academic Residency (AR) is intended for students who have no other course to enroll in their program but need to enter the campus for consultation with faculty members. As example would be a student whose thesis has been deferred. 
Section 4. It is important to note that a student who does not intend to enroll for a specific term for whatever reason, but still has remaining units to enroll, is not allowed to enroll in Academic Residency, but should file for a Leave of Absence (LOA). 
Section 5. A student on LOA may not enter the campus. As such, no residency, whether academic or non-academic, shall be granted to students on LOA. Students not enrolled but need to frequently enter the campus shall be required to enroll in undergraduate residency. 
Section 6. Non-Academic Residency (NAR) is intended for students who need to enter the campus for co-curricular activities, as determined by the Dean of Student Affairs. The NAR is intended for the summer term only. A student, on his own, may not enroll for NAR. It is the Director of Student Affairs who initiates enrolment for NAR. 
Section 7. On the other hand, enrolment in NAR results from an office-to-office transaction involving the Dean of Student Affairs and the College Registrar. 
Section 8. TRANSFEREES must have at least one (1) year residency before graduation. 
M. Maximum Residency 
Section 1. The maximum residence Rule (MRR) states that students who fail to finish the requirements of a degree program of any college within a prescribed period of actual residence shall not be allowed to register further in that college. Under meritorious cases, extension of residency may be granted. The Program Head/Dean of each Program shall designate the approving authority for such extensions. Each extension granted shall be reported to the President through the Vice President for Academic Affairs. 
N. Enforcing a New Curriculum 
Section 1. When a new curriculum is enforced, only new students or freshmen shall be covered. 
Section 2. A student shall follow the same curriculum that he started on within the maximum length of time allowed for residence. 
Section 3. If a student fails to finish the course within the prescribed maximum number of years of residence, he shall be required to follow the new curriculum. 
O. Leave of Absence 
Section 1. Prolonged leave of absence must be sought by a written petition to the Dean/Program Head and recorded by the College Registrar. The petition must state the reason for which the leave is desired and must specify the period of the leave which shall not exceed one (1) academic year. 
Section 2. Withdrawal from the College without formal leave of absence may cause the curtailment of entire withdrawal of the registration. 
Section 3. A student who withdraws his/her registration shall be entitled to withdraw his/her credentials submitted as requirement for enrollment. 
P. Selection of Honor Students 
Section 1. Students who are candidates for graduation with honors must have completed 100% of the total units required for graduation, and must have been in continuous full-time residence. 
Section 2. To qualify in the ranking of honors, a student must have at least a general weighted average of 1.75 in all subjects with no grade below 2.00 except in NSTP. 
Section 3. The student must have no derogatory records. 
Section 4. The selection of honor student shall be deliberated upon by a committee composed of the class advisers of the graduating students, Dean of the College, Registrar and Vice President for Academic Affairs. 
Section 5. A student from the Degree program shall graduate with honors as follows: 
1.	Summa Cum Laude – 1.0 to 1.25 (General weighted average) with no grade below 1.5 in all subjects except NSTP
2.	Magna Cum Laude – 1.26 to 1.50 (Gen. weighted average) in all subjects except NSTP
3.	Cum Laude - 1.51 to 1.75 (Gen. weighted average) in all subjects except NSTP
Q. Special Awards 
Section 1. This is given to the graduating student with grades below 2.0 to 2.5 who obtained any of the following weighted average grade: (No NC, DR grades) 
Average 	Corresponding Awards 
1.00-1.25 	Gold 
1.26-1.45 	Silver 
1.46-1.60 	Bronze 
Section 2. For transferees, in order to graduate with honors, 80% of the total credits earned toward the degree must have been earned in residence at TPC. 
R. Other Academic Awards 
1.	Best in Capstone/Research/Thesis - This honors individuals or teams whose research demonstrates exceptional innovation, scholarly excellence, and significant impact on their respective field or discipline.
2.	Athlete Award – This honor exceptional talent, sportsmanship, and dedication in athletics, recognizing individuals who excel in their sport and inspire others with their achievements.
3.	Service Award – This honors outstanding dedication to community service, recognizing individuals who make a positive impact through volunteerism and leadership.
4.	Skills Proficiency Award – This award recognizes individuals who excel in a specific skill, showcasing exceptional mastery and dedication to continuous improvement
5.	Performing Arts Award – This award recognizes exceptional talent and dedication in music, dance, theater, and more, recognizing individuals who enrich and inspire through their performances.
S. Computation of General Weighted Average (GWA) Section 1. The computation of general weighted average (GWA) in all credited subjects shall be as follows: 
1.	Credit units for each subject are multiplied by the grade earned to obtain the credit point per subject
2.	The resulting credit points are added
3.	The total number of credit points is divided by the total number of credit units to obtain the GWA. The GWA is then computed to two (2) decimal places
4.	For GWA computation purposes, a descriptive grade of Failure or No Credit in any subject is equivalent to 5.00
5.	Withdraw (W), Dropped (DR) or No Credit (NC) remarks shall not be included in the computation of the GWA
6.	Grades in NSTP shall not be included in the computation of the GPA
T. Medium of Instruction 
Section 1. English is generally used as the medium of instructions in the college in all subjects except subjects to be taught in Filipino. 
U. Student’s Rights 
Section 1. In addition to Section 9 of the Education Act of 1982, which grants students the right to access their school records and obtain official documents, other legal bases include the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (Republic Act No. 10173), which ensures students' control over their personal information, and the Civil Code of the Philippines, which protects privacy rights. The Family Code of the Philippines also reinforces privacy, especially when students reach legal age. These laws collectively guarantee students' rights to access and control their school records 
Section 2. A student of legal age (18 or older) in the Philippines can deny their parents access to their school records. Under the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (Republic Act No. 10173), individuals have control over their personal data, and schools must obtain the student's consent to disclose information to third parties, including parents, unless required by law. Once a student reaches legal age, they are the sole authority over their academic records, unless there is a legal basis for disclosure. 
V. Issuance of a Certification, Diploma, or Record to a Proxy 
Section 1. Under the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (Republic Act No. 10173), personal data, including academic records, can only be disclosed to a third party, such as a proxy, with the explicit consent of the data subject, typically provided through written authorization. Section 9 of the Education Act of 1982 (Batas Pambansa Blg. 232) grants students the right to access their school records and obtain official documents, implicitly allowing them to authorize a proxy to secure these records on their behalf. Additionally, the Civil Code of the Philippines (Republic Act No. 386) permits the delegation of authority through a Special Power of Attorney (SPA), which is commonly required when a proxy is appointed to act on behalf of the student in obtaining academic documents. 
W. Documentary Fees 
Article C. Section 5c.01 
BOT Resolution No. 7. S. 2024 
SB Resolution No. 2024-166 
Transcript of Records - 450.00 
Certified True Copy (CTC) - 50.00 
Certificate of Enrolment/Residency/Others - 50.00 
Certificate of Earned Units - 100.00 
Certificate of Good Moral Character - 50.00 
Honorable Dismissal - 100.00 
Duplication of Lost Forms - 65.00 
Documentary Stamps - 34.00 
Certification, Authentication, Verification (CAV) 
Local - 500.00 
Overseas/Abroad 
(for DFA) - 1, 300.00 
 
TPC STUDENT HANDBOOK v.04 
Chapter 6 GRADING SYSTEM 
RATING 	EQUIVALENT 	DESCRIPTION 	RATING 	EQUIVALENT 	DESCRIPTION 
1 	95-100 	Excellent 	2.3 	82 	Good 
1.1 	94 	Very Good 	2.4 	81 	Good 
1.2 	93 	Very Good 	2.5 	80 	Good 
1.3 	92 	Very Good 	2.6 	79 	Fair 
1.4 	91 	Very Good 	2.7 	78 	Fair 
1.5 	90 	Very Good 	2.8 	77 	Fair 
1.6 	89 	Good 	2.9 	76 	Fair 
1.7 	88 	Good 	3 	75 	Fair 
1.8 	87 	Good 	5 	Below 75 	Failure 
1.9 	86 	Good 	3W 	Warning 	- 
2 	85 	Good 	DR 	Dropped 	- 
2.1 	84 	Good 	NC 	No Credit 	- 
2.2 	83 	Good 	W 	Withdrawn 	
Chapter 7 GRADUATION 
A. Graduation Requirements 
Section 1. Students must file a formal application as candidates for graduation with the office of the Dean of their respective colleges. 
Section 2. They shall be recommended for graduation by the Program Head/Dean of their respective colleges after having satisfied all academic and other requirements prescribed for graduation. 
Section 3. During the first three (3) weeks after the opening of classes in each semester, each Dean or the duly authorized representative, shall submit to the College Registrar a list of candidates for graduation at the next commencement. 
Section 4. The College Registrar, in consultation with the Program Head/Dean or departments concerned, shall then inquire into the academic records of the candidates to ascertain whether the candidate has any deficiency to make up and whether she/he has completed all other requirements for graduation. 
Section 5. The student must satisfactorily complete any of the components of the National Service Training Program (NSTP) as maybe provided by law. 
Section 6. If there is any question regarding a candidate, her/his name should not be deleted from the list of candidates for graduation, but a footnote to that effect should be made. 
Section 7. Ten (10) weeks before the end of a semester, the College Registrar shall publish a complete list of duly qualified candidates for graduation for that semester. 
Section 8. All candidates for graduation must have their deficiencies settled and their records cleared not later than five (5) weeks before the end of their last semester. 
Section 9. A candidate for graduation who started his studies under a curriculum more than ten (10) years old shall be governed by the following rules: 
1.	those who had completed all the requirements of the curriculum but did not apply for, nor were granted, the corresponding degree or title shall have their graduation approved as of the date they should have originally graduated.
2.	those who had completed all but two (2) or three (3) subjects required by a curriculum shall be made to follow any of the curricula enforced from the time they first attended the College to the present.
3.	No student shall be graduated from the College unless s/he has completed at least one (1) year of residence work and total units of course requirements.
B. Academic Requirements 
Section 1. A student who completes the minimum required academic units for the course shall be recognized as graduate. He is obliged to attend the graduation ceremonies except for excusable reasons. No student shall be given academic credits for any given course unless he has been duly enrolled, regularly attended classes, submitted all class requirements, and passed all required examinations. 
C. Administrative Requirements 
Section 1. The student is required to have complied with the following administrative requirements: 
1.	Submitted all the academic credentials (Form 138, Transcript of Records) required by the Registrar.
2.	Settled 	all 	property 	and 	monetary accountabilities evidenced by the submission of Clearance Form duly signed by the following:
a.	Student Supreme Council Treasurer, for obligations to student organizations;
b.	Office of Student Affairs, for obligations or accountabilities to college student programs, projects and activities;
c.	Librarian, for clearance of Library book, periodical and multi-media accountabilities and obligations;
d.	Adviser, for subject requirements
e.	College Dean, for any unsettled academic requirements
f.	Property Custodian for clearance of book, material, supply, equipment, and other physical accountabilities
g.	College Treasurer when all school fees are settled
h.	Registrar when cleared of all financial and academic obligation
i.	President, for validation of the Registrar’s signature.
j.	Settled financial obligations related to graduation expenses.
3.	Graduating students are required to attend the graduation ceremonies.
4.	A Special Order duly sanctioned by the Commission on Higher Education can only be granted after completion of all academic and administrative requirements of the college.
Chapter 8 TRANSFER CREDENTIALS 
Section 1. A student who desires to leave TPC shall be granted Transfer Credential by the Registrar. A clearance shall be accomplished indicating that the student is cleared from any financial obligations as well as proper accountability. 
Section 2. Procedures: 
1.	The student secure and accomplish the Request Form.
2.	Proceed to the Treasurer’s Office for the payment.
3.	Submit duly accomplished request and payment receipt to the Registrar’s Office.
4.	Registrar receives duly accomplished request and verifies the student records. 
5.	Registrar’s Office prepares Transfer Credentials within 7 to 15 working days and records the same the logbook.
6.	Student receive the documents and sign in the logbook.
Chapter 9 RETENTION POLICIES 
Section 1. All students enrolled in college for the first time, are considered in good standing. All other students are either in good standing or on probation, as defined below. 
Section 2. To be considered in good standing, every student must maintain, at all times, an over-all grade average of at least 2.0 average for board programs and 3.0 average for non-board programs. 
Section 3. Every student will be evaluated by the Deans/Program Heads every end of the semester. 
Section 4. If the student does not meet the minimum grade requirements, the student is advised to shift to another program within the college. 
Section 5. A student must pass at least 75% of the total number of units enrolled during the semester. 
Section 6. When a student incurs a failing mark in less than 50% of the units enrolled, he is given a warning by the Dean/Program Head and will be under probation for 2 semesters. 
Section 7. A student who obtains an “NC”, “DR”, “5.0” mark in 50% of his subject load shall be placed on probation for the succeeding semester with a reduced load of 15 units. 
Section 8. A student under probation status will be allowed to enroll a maximum of 18 units. 
Section 9. When a student fails 75% to 100 % of the total units, he/she enrolled, he shall be dismissed permanently from the program. 
Chapter 10
ADMISSION/ENROLMENT PROCESS 
Section 1. New Students 
Step 1. GUIDANCE OFFICE 
1.	TPC Application Form. (Link will be posted at the Guidance, TPC, SAO, SSG fb page.)
2.	Admission exam
Step 2. REGISTRAR’S OFFICE 
Documents Required 
1.	Admission result
2.	(Freshmen) Good moral and Grade 12
Report Card/Form 137 with at least 2nd
Quarter grade (Original)
3.	(Transferee/s) Transfer of Credentials
(Hon. Dismissal &amp; TOR) (Original)
4.	PSA Birth Certificate (Original)
5.	Duly accomplished Student’s ID Form
6.	1 Long brown envelope
7.	1 Long white folder
8.	1 pc 2x2 picture (with name & amp;
course indicated at the back) Step 3. DEAN/PROGRAM HEAD’S OFFICE: 
1.	program requirements
2.	encoding
3.	evaluation
4.	subject loading
Step 4. NSTP Office 
1. NSTP enrollment form (ROTC/CWTS)
Step 5. STUDENT SERVICES 
1.	School Clinic
a.	Drug Test Result
b.	Online Medical Form
c.	Medical Certificate with required laboratories (BS Crim students)
2.	School Library
a.	1x1 ID picture
3.	Guidance and Counseling
a.	Student Inventory Google Form
4.	Supreme Student Government
a.	SSG Fee
Step 6. REGISTRAR’S OFFICE 
1. Certificate of Registration (COR)
Section 2. For continuing student 
Step 1. REGISTRAR’S OFFICE 
1. Grade Slip
Step 2. DEAN/PROGRAM HEAD’S OFFICE: 
1.	program requirements
2.	encoding
3.	evaluation
4.	subject loading
Step 3. STUDENT SERVICES 
1.	School Clinic
a.	Drug Test Result
b.	Online Medical Form
c.	Medical Certificate with required laboratories (BS Crim students)
2.School Library
a. 1x1 ID picture
2.	Guidance and Counseling
a.	Student Inventory Google Form
3.	Supreme Student Government
a.	SSG Fee
Step 6. REGISTRAR’S OFFICE 
1. Certificate of Registration (COR)
Chapter 11 COLLEGE ADMISSION AND ENROLLMENT POLICY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITY 
(PWD) AND SOLO PARENTS 
Section 1. Purpose. The aim of this policy is to provide Persons with Disabilities (PWD) and Solo Parents with equal access and opportunity for admission, enrollment, and academic achievement at Talibon Polytechnic College. TPC endeavors to provide a diverse, inclusive, and caring learning environment for all its students. 
Section 2. Scope. This policy shall be observed by all potential students applying for admission, and by those requesting enrollment or re-enrollment in degree and nondegree programs of Talibon Polytechnic College, whether or not they have disabilities or are solo parents. 
Section 3. Policy Statement 
1.	Non-Discrimination. Talibon Polytechnic College adheres to the values of equal opportunity, nondiscrimination, and respect for diversity. The college believes in extending fair access to education to persons with disabilities and solo parents.
2.	Persons with Disabilities (PWD). The college has a policy of reasonable accommodation for the PWDs as per the laws. The institution accepts that the PWDs have special difficulties and offers extra assistance to enable them to become fully involved in college life.
Section 4. Admission Requirements. PWD applicants will be judged on academic criteria only. The college will not apply extra requirements that are discriminatory and inaccessible to the PWDs. 
Section 5. Reasonable Accommodations. The college will also make changes to facilities, services, and policy where appropriate. This might include, but is not limited to: 
1. Accessible campus facilities (ramps, elevators, designated seating).
a.	Altered examination procedures (extra time, quiet room, screen readers).
b.	Supply of assistive technologies.
Section 6. Disclosure and Confidentiality. PWD applicants are encouraged to reveal their disability status at the time of admission for the school to know the possible programs specific for their needs. All personal data pertaining to the disability will be treated confidentially in accordance with applicable data protection legislation. 
Section 7. Collecting the disability information about the student’s disability will solely be used for providing accommodations and support. This information will not be used for any forms of discrimination or deny opportunities. 
Section 8. Solo Parents. Solo parents, as classified by the Solo Parents' Welfare Act (Republic Act No. 8972), are entitled to assistance during the admission process and through their entire academic life. The school acknowledges the balancing act between study and parental duties and strives to alleviate the solo parent students' burdens. 
1.	Admission Consideration: Solo parents who qualify for admission to the chosen academic program will be considered without prejudice. Priority scholarship or financial assistance consideration may be given based on single parent status, especially for those financially underprivileged.
2.	Support for Solo Parents: Reasonable support measures will be made available by the college to help solo parents meet their academic requirements, such as:
a.	Flexible class or examination schedules where feasible.
b.	On-campus childcare access or help.
c.	Counseling and academic as well as emotional counseling services.
3.	Financial Assistance: The school will see if it is possible to extend scholarships, grants, or UNIFAST law for solo parent students. Aside from these, special payment arrangements can also be provided in order to soften financial loads.
Section 9. Application Procedures 
1.	For PWD Applicants: Applicants with disabilities who want to apply for admission must submit proof of disability issued by a licensed physician or a government agency accepted by law (e.g., PWD ID). This proof must be submitted to the Admissions Office during application.
2.	Solo Parent Applicants: Applicants who are solo parents must provide evidence of single-parent status, i.e., Solo Parent ID or certification issued by the local government unit (LGU). The college shall validate this document to determine qualification for available accommodations or benefits.
Section 10. Support Services and Facilities 
1.	PWD Support Services: Disability Resource Center (DRC): The DRC shall serve as the central point of contact for PWD students to obtain accommodations and support services.
a.	Accessible Learning Tools: Available on request like online platform (schoology), online and offline modules.
b.	Personal Assistance: Where required, personal assistants or volunteers can be provided to support PWD students.
2.	Solo Parent Support Services: Counseling and Peer Support: Academic and emotional support services will be offered to enable solo parents to cope with studies and family duties.
a.	Childcare Services: The college will collaborate with local daycare centers or investigate in-campus childcare arrangements to assist single parent students.
b.	Flexible Learning Options: Single parents can be given the choice of taking courses through online platforms or evening classes to fit their parental responsibilities.
Section 11. Monitoring and Evaluation: To facilitate effective implementation of this policy, regular monitoring will be done to assess the appropriateness of support given to PWD students and solo parents. Students' feedback will be eagerly sought and used for enhancing services. 
Section 12. Grievance and Appeal Procedures: Any student who believes they have been denied proper accommodation or support can submit a grievance to the Office of Student Affairs or the Disability Resource Center (for PWDs). The process of appeal will ensure that grievances are heard promptly, equitably, and without reprisal. 
Section 13. Review and Amendments: This policy will be revisited on an annual basis by the Office of Student Affairs, Admissions Committee, and other departments. Any updates or modifications to the policy will be notified to the student population and staff in a timely and regular manner. 
Section 14. Talibon Polytechnic College ensures all students, irrespective of their disability status or family background, an equal opportunity to excel academically. The college, through this policy, attempts to provide a learning environment. Through this policy, the institution seeks to create an environment where every student can achieve their full potential. 
ARTICLE III STUDENT SERVICES 
Chapter 1 Library Services 
A. Rules and Regulations 
Section 1. All students must tap their school ID with a barcode on the RFID system upon entering the library; 
Section 2. Silence must be observed; idle conversations, boisterous laughter, and other unnecessary noises that disturb other library users must be avoided. Cellular phones should be set to silent mode before entering the library, and answering or making calls should be done outside; 
Section 3. Eating, smoking, sleeping, and bringing liquid drinks are prohibited; 
Section 4. The library should be kept clean and orderly. Chairs and bookstands must be returned properly after use; 
Section 5. All reading materials should be handled with care. Stealing, mutilating pages, and other forms of vandalism are serious offenses and will be dealt with administratively; 
Section 6. Books and other materials or references cannot be borrowed without an ID with a barcode; 
Section 7. Leave books on the table after use; reserved books should be placed on the circulation counter; Section 8. The library is not responsible for personal belongings; 
Section 9. Present your belongings for inspection before leaving the library. 
B. Code of Conduct 
Section 1. Respect for Others: Maintain a quiet and respectful environment for all library users. Refrain from loud conversations, disruptive behavior, and use of mobile phones in quiet areas. 
Section 2. Proper Use of Library Resources: Handle books, computers, and other library materials with care. Return items to their proper places after use. 
Section 3. Cleanliness: Keep the library clean by disposing of trash properly and avoiding food and drinks in designated areas. Library Etiquette 
Section 4. Noise Levels: Keep noise to a minimum. Use headphones when listening to audio and set mobile phones to silent mode. 
Section 5. Personal Belongings: Do not leave personal belongings unattended. The library is not responsible for lost or stolen items. 
Section 6. Study Areas: Be considerate of others in study areas. Use designated areas for group work and respect silent zones. 
Section 8. Library Computers: Use library computers for research and academic purposes only. Follow the library's computer usage policy. 
Borrowing and Returning Items 
Section 9. Library Card: Always present your library card when borrowing items. Do not lend your card to others. 
Section 10. Loan Periods: Adhere to the loan periods for borrowed items. Return items on time to avoid fines and ensure availability for other users. 
Section 11. Renewals and Reservations: Utilize online or in-person services for renewing or reserving items. Conduct in Special Areas 
Section 12. Quiet Zones: Absolute silence is expected in designated quiet zones. Use these areas for individual study and research. 
Section 13. Group Study Rooms: Reserve group study rooms in advance. Keep noise levels reasonable and vacate the room promptly at the end of your reservation time. 
C. Library Hours 
Section 1. The library is open from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM, with no noon break, from Mondays to Fridays, except on national holidays, Saturdays, and Sundays. 
D. Library Services 
Section 1: Library Orientation 
Familiarizes students and new users with the library’s collection, including books, journals, digital resources, and databases. Explains the services offered and outlines the rules and guidelines for using the library. 
Section 2. Borrowing and Returning 
Students may borrow up to 3 books at a time for a maximum of 3 days. Reserved books are available for overnight use only from 4:00 PM onwards. 
Section 3. TPC Library Website  
It serves as a gateway to the library's collections, services, and resources, offering a convenient and accessible way for users to engage with the library and enhance their learning, research, and recreational pursuits. 
Section 4. Virtual Services  
Available through email, phone calls, and mobile. These services help you save time on your research. Simply email us for assistance with retrieving your topic, or contact us via our mobile number. 
Section 5. TPC Online Library  
Provide convenient, 24/7 access to a wide range of digital resources—such 	as 	e-books, 	e-journals, 	research databases, multimedia content, and other academic or recreational materials—through the internet. 
E. Library Facilities 
1.	Wi-Fi Facilities
2.	Circulation Counter
3.	Library Holdings
4.	Periodical Section
5.	Computer Workstations
6.	Electronic Bulletin Board Display
7.	Emergency Exit and Lights
8.	Baggage Counter
Chapter 2 Health Services 
A. Health Services Requirement Upon Enrollment 
Section 1. New Criminology Students shall undergo general physical check-up and comply all the necessary laboratories needed by securing medical clearance such as but not limited to: 
1.	Blood test
2.	Urine test
3.	Chest X-ray
4.	Hearing test
5.	Eye test
6.	Pregnancy test (women)
7.	Hepatitis B test
8.	Drug test
Section 2. All students (new, continuing, shiftees, returnees, and transferees) are required to fill-up and update their health status report through a google link sent by the Health Services Unit through the online site of Talibon Polytechnic College-Clinic. 
Section3. All students must submit a Drug Test result during admission 
B. Medical and Dental Examination and Consultation 
Section 1. The Medical Services Unit maintains and protects the general health of the students and gives first aid treatments. 
Section 2. The Medical Services Unit receives students for medical consultation and medical assessment through College Physician every Tuesday and Thursday, 1:005:00PM. 
Section 3. All students who wish to have dental consultation shall visit the Health Servies Unit every Monday 7:00AM-5:00PM. Students who received dental recommendation form the College Dentist will be scheduled based on the desired procedure. 
Section 4. Students who have medical concerns and other health related concerns may use the Talibon Polytechnic College-Clinic online platform account for TeleConsultation. 
Section 5. The Medical Health Services Unit provides primary health care services administered by licensed medical, dental, and allied professionals made available to all students. Adequate facilities for health care and updated health records are kept and maintained confidential basing on Data Privacy Act of 2012 
C. Medical Services 
Section 1. The Medical Services Unit provides free medical services to students as follows: 
1.	Attend to mild to moderate health cases.
2.	Medical exam and consultation (except laboratories)
3.	Medicines in accordance with the resource capability of the institution
4.	Dental consultation with selective procedures
5.	Student Group Insurance
Section 2. The Medical Services Unit takes care of the supervision of campus sanitation, prevention and control of communicable diseases and health education. 
Section 3. In coordination with other agencies, the Medical Services Unity shall immediately render services to students in need of serious attention. 
D. Pregnant Monitoring and Leave of Absence Flow 
Section 1. Pregnant students shall visit the Health Services Unit for profiling and record keeping. 
Section 2. Pregnant student shall file the Leave of Absence one (1) month before their expected date of delivery. Pregnant student with medical issues can file their leave of absence presenting their doctors medical certification. 
Section 3. Post partum student shall submit a photocopy of their child’s live birth upon their return of class. 
E. Student emergencies 
Section 1. Student with emergency need will be assess in the Health Services Unit. If emergency referral may arise, the Health Services Unit shall call the emergency contact person to notify the student situation. 
Section 2. Those with active contagious disease shall visit the Health Services Unit for clearance before admission. 
Chapter 3 GUIDANCE AND COUNSELING 
The Guidance Counseling Center (GCC) is a unit under the Office of the Student Affairs and Services Division (OSAS) that provides various programs and activities to support the holistic development of students. The GCC aims to help students cope with their academic, personal, social, and career concerns through counseling, testing, information dissemination, consultation, and referral services. The GCC also coordinates with other units and stakeholders to promote a conducive and supportive learning environment for the students. 
A. Individual Inventory Service 
Section 1. This service involves a continuous process of gathering pertinent data, information and records about students as a basis for helping them understand themselves better and also for better responding to their needs. 
Section 2. All data and pertaining information that have been gathered from each student are entered in the cumulative record. 
B. Information Service 
Section 1. The GCC secures information and makes these available to students for their holistic development. 
Section 2. All data and pertaining information that have been gathered from each student are entered in the cumulative record 
C. Counseling Service 
Section 1. This service provides individual and group counseling to students who voluntarily visit the GCC to seek assistance, as well as "referrals" given by faculty members, administrators, staff, parents, and family members who are in need of assistance that could affect the students' educational, emotional, spiritual, and social well- being. 
Section 2. Students can also get counseling service in person, via the phone, online, or through print media. 
D. Appraisal/Testing Service 
Section 1. The administration, scoring and interpretation of standardized psychological tests in the areas of intelligence, aptitude, personality, interest, needs or other affective scale utilized to generate a more comprehensive picture of student traits or characteristics. 
Section 2. The testing program is designed and implemented to help the students gain understanding of their needs and personality, realize their potentials, identify strengths and weaknesses and recognize its implications. 
E. Follow-up Service 
Section 1. Follow-up sessions are conducted among students who are counseled, referred by faculty, administrators and other college staff. The follow-up service ensures that the student has learned appropriate behaviors and decisions regarding his or her problem or need. Through evaluation and research, the needs of students are identified to which proper interventions are made. 
Section 2. In this service, a student’s academic performance is followed up in coordination with the subject teacher. Through it, the guidance counselor will be able to see his or her progress or take alternative steps related to his or her needs. 
F. Career Development and Placement Service 
Section 1. This service takes care of assisting students in Fand potentials, providing them information regarding the college course offerings and requirements, information on job trends, job referrals and employment opportunities. 
G. Referral Services 
Section 1. This service is to provide guidance help to the students who are referred by faculty, staff, administrator and peer facilitators. 
Section 2. There is a special case that the Guidance Counselor will refer the student to go for taking special help from a specialized professional or agency because he or she needs specialized help and much care to overcome the problem. 
H. Research and Evaluation Services 
Section 1. This service carries out the systematic evaluation of the guidance services. The purpose of which is to find out if the program goals and objectives have been met. Furthermore, the result of these could be the basis for improving the delivery of the services. 
I. Prevention and Wellness Services 
Section 1. The Guidance and Counseling Center prioritizes prevention as a key objective, serving as the foundation for many of its services and activities. The focus is on promoting healthy living rather than addressing issues after they arise. Students encounter various challenges, ranging from stress, homesickness, and career decisionmaking to relationship struggles and more serious concerns like anxiety and depression. 
Section 2. The Prevention and Wellness program supports TPC bonafide students in their personal efforts to maintain good health and achieve social balance. Healthy students develop confidence and energy, allowing them to make the most of each day. They are encouraged to take an active role in their own well-being, recognizing its impact on both their personal and academic success. 
Chapter 4 CANTEEN/FOOD SERVICES 
Section 1. There is adequate, safe and healthy variety of food available in TPC Canteen. The college ensures that the food provider follows health, safety and sanitation of the Department of Health. 
Section 2. All food outlets will be periodically inspected for sanitation and hygiene, and a Certificate to Operate should be displayed in a prominent area of the food outlet.  
Section 3. The College shall maintain canteen services for students, faculty and personnel in all campuses. 
Section 4. An office to be designated by the College President should supervise all canteens inside the campus. 
Section 5. The operation of all canteens should be regularly monitored and evaluated by a committee which has a student representative as a member. 
Chapter 5 SCHOLARSHIP UNIT 
Section 1. The college provides student scholarship and financial assistance in various forms and accessible modalities. Guidelines, Screening and monitoring procedures are explained during orientation, and widely disseminated. 
Section 2. The Scholarship Unit is a service unit under the Office of the Student Affairs and Services. 
Section 3. Functions and Services of Scholarship Unit: 
1.	Solicits scholarships or grants from public and private agencies, philanthropic individuals and civic organizations.
2.	Develops criteria and procedures for the selection of scholars/grantee and assists the funding agencies pre-screen applicants and/or monitor the academic and billing status of qualified applicants.
3.	Coordinates with the Office of the College Registrar in the preparation of enrolment and grade reports of grantees and with the Accounting Office in the preparation of accounting/ billing reports of the TPC funded and external funded scholars.
4.	Monitors scholars’ academic performance to ensure that the scholarship or assistance is given to appropriate and deserving recipients.
5.	Facilitates enrolment of scholars from various grants and assists the scholars/grantees in processing of relevant documents.
6.	Orients first year students and transferees regarding scholarship and publishes information on various scholarship grants available for students.
7.	Caters the needs of students that excel academically who are financially and socially deprived.
Section 3. Scholarship policies 
1.	All students enjoy free tuition fee and other miscellaneous fee.
2.	Only those enrolled and bonafide student of Talibon Polytechnic College can enjoy the scholarship offers.
3.	A student may only enjoy 1 CHED scholarship and 1 NGO scholarship. In case a student is recipient of 2 or more scholarship, he/she shall be required to choose only one (1).
Chapter 6 SAFETY AND SECURITY 
General Security Rules 
A. ID Policy 
Section 1. All students, staff, and faculty must carry valid College ID’s. 
Section 2. ID’s must be presented upon request by security personnel. 
B. Visitor’s Access 
Section 1. Visitors must register at the main gate and receive a visitor’s pass. 
Section 2. Passes must be returned upon exit. 
C. Access Control Measures 
Section 1. All visitors must enter the Main Gate. 
Section 2. Valid ID must be presented to the security guard. 
Section 3. Visitors must sign the Visitor’s Logbook, stating: 
1.	Full name
2.	Purpose of visit
3.	Person/office to visit
4.	Time of entry
Section 4. A Visitor Pass must be worn visibly at all times inside campus. 
Section 5. Visitors may only remain within designated areas unless escorted by a staff member. 
Section 6. No access allowed to: 
1.	Classrooms (during class hours)
2.	Dormitories
3.	Laboratories or server/IT rooms (without written authorization)
Section 7. Minors below 18 must be accompanied by a legal guardian and are not allowed to loiter. 
D. Visitors Conduct and Guidance 
Section 1. All visitors are expected to adhere the values of professionalism, courtesy, and respect during their time on campus. 
E. Prohibited Conduct 
1.	Use of profane or abusive language
2.	Carrying weapons, drugs, alcohol, or explosive materials
3.	Recording video or taking photos without permission
4.	Disrupting classes or official activities
5.	Unauthorized solicitation or distribution of flyers
6.	Smoking outside designated smoking areas
F. Visitors Exit Procedure 
Section 1. When leaving the TPC campus: 
1.	Return the Visitor Pass to the security post
2.	Log out in the Visitor’s Logbook with time of exit
3.	Any items brought in and recorded must also be logged out (if applicable)
4.	If accompanied by a staff member, exit clearance is confirmed by that staff
G. Building Access 
Section 1. Access to academic building is limited to operational hours. 
Section 2. Unauthorized access to restricted areas is prohibited such as access to laboratories, server rooms, and other restricted areas is limited to authorized personnel only. 
H. Accessibility of Persons with Disability (PWD) 
Section 1. Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) Talibon Polytechnic College is committed to the full inclusion and support of PWD students, staff, and guests. 
1. Physical Infrastructure
a.	Ramps with non-slip surface and handrails installed in:
1.)	Main Building  
2.)	Hallways 
b.	Accessible comfort rooms available in:
1.)	Ground Floor 
2.)	Main Building 
3.)	Audio Visual Room   
4.)	Covered Court 
c.	Priority Seating for PWDs in classrooms and event areas
I. Loitering and Trespassing 
Section 1. Loitering in hallways, stairwells, parking is not permitted. 
J. Prohibited Behaviors 
Section 1. Congregating unnecessarily in corridors, stairwells, or doorways. 
Section 2. Remaining on campus after dismissal or scheduled activities without valid reason. 
Section 3. Entering closed classrooms or office spaces during weekends or holidays. 
Section 4. Climbing fences or entering through unauthorized entrances/exits. 
Section 5. Loitering near dormitories not assigned to the student. 
Section 6. Frequent visits to classrooms/buildings where one is not enrolled or authorized. 
K. Preventive Reminders for Students 
Section 1. Stay only in assigned classrooms, laboratories, or approved student areas (e.g., Library, Study Lounge). 
Section 2. Wait for your next class in designated waiting zones, not staircases or corridors. 
Section 3. Avoid crowding building entrances or walkways. 
Fire Emergency Procedures 
1.	Activate the nearest fire alarm or notify a Security Guard or Safety Marshal.
2.	Evacuate the building calmly using the designated fire exit routes posted near doors.
3.	Do not use elevators.
4.	Assist PWDs and vulnerable individuals if safe to do so.
5.	Proceed to the primary evacuation area (Covered Court) or secondary site (Engineering field).
6.	The Building Marshal will conduct a headcount.
7.	Fire extinguishers may only be used by trained staff if the fire is small and manageable.
Emergency Earthquake Procedures During the earthquake: 
1.	Drop, Cover, and Hold On – take shelter under a sturdy desk or against an interior wall.
2.	Stay away from glass, shelves, or heavy equipment. After shaking stops: 
1.	Calmly evacuate the building — do not run or push.
2.	Proceed to the nearest open evacuation zone.
3.	Wait for the all-clear signal from the Crisis Management Committee before re-entering any structure.
Special Notes: 
Safety Marshals must assist PWDs and pregnant women. Avoid fallen wires, cracks, or damaged structures. 
Medical Emergency Procedures 
When a student, staff, or visitor collapses or injured: 
1.	Call the Campus Clinic or Health Services Unit immediately:
a.	0917-562-0239 (RHU) or internal line
2.	Trained first-aid responders (nurse or Safety Officer) will:
a.	Assess the situation
b.	Apply basic first aid or CPR (if needed)
c.	Decide whether transport to a hospital is required
d.	Call emergency ambulance via MDRRMC:
SMART: 0919-066-0667 
GLOBE: 0917-856-5561 
Campus Crime Reporting 
Criminal acts that must be reported include but are not limited to: 
1.	Theft or burglary
2.	Physical assault or harassment
3.	Possession or use of illegal drugs or weapons
4.	Sexual harassment or violence
5.	Vandalism or property damage
6.	Cybercrime or online harassment using campus resources
7.	Threats of violence, including bomb threats and stalking
Chapter 7 SPORTS AND ATHLETICS 
The Office of Sports and Athletics at Talibon Polytechnic College is dedicated to promoting physical fitness, athletic development, and fostering a competitive spirit among students. It focuses on creating a vibrant sports culture, enhancing teamwork, and building discipline through both individual and team sports. 
Section 1. Objectives 
1.	Foster a culture of sportsmanship across all local colleges and university.
2.	Promote student participation in various athletic activities, cultivating physical fitness and teamwork.
3.	Enhance students' competitive skills through continuous training, practice, and participation in local, regional, and national sports competitions.
4.	Develop athletic excellence by supporting studentathletes in their pursuit of excellence both on and off the field.
5.	Inspire teamwork and leadership through organized sports events and tournaments.
6.	Recognize and reward outstanding athletes by offering incentives like academic credits or financial rewards to students with exceptional performance and sportsmanship.
Section 2. Services 
1.	Organizes continuous training and coaching programs for student-athletes and aspiring athletes to improve their skills in various sports.
2.	Provides a platform for sports competitions through intra-college tournaments, league games, and athletic meets in collaboration with other institutions.
3.	Ensures access to quality sports equipment and maintains facilities for student-athletes to train and perform effectively.
4.	Offers coaching and mentorship from qualified professionals to help students excel in their chosen sports.
5.	Supports athletes in representing the university in local, regional, and national competitions.
6.	Facilitates awards and recognition for outstanding athletes through ceremonies and rewards, encouraging continuous involvement in sports activities.
7.	Promotes sports events through in-person, ensuring wider participation and audience engagement.
8.	Ensures student-athlete welfare by providing safety protocols and injury prevention programs.
Chapter 8 ARTS AND CULTURAL 
A. Performing Arts 
Performing arts are types of art where people use their voice, body, or instruments to perform for an audience, such as music, dance, and theater. 
Section 1. Qualifications 
Talent and Skills – ability in singing, dancing, acting, or playing instruments. 
1.	Stage Presence – confidence, charm, and ability to connect with the audience.
2.	Creativity and Expression – unique style and ability to convey emotions or stories.
3.	Discipline and Commitment – willingness to practice regularly and attend rehearsals.
4.	Teamwork – ability to work well with other performers and staff.
5.	Professionalism – showing respect, punctuality, and a positive attitude.
6.	Physical Fitness – stamina and energy to perform effectively (if required by the role).
7.	Adaptability – ability to adjust to different performance styles, themes, or settings.
B. Singer/Vocal 
Singer or Vocal is a person who uses their voice to produce music, often performing songs for entertainment, expression, or communication. 
Section 1. Qualifications 
1.	Vocal Ability – clear, strong, and controlled voice with good pitch and tone.
2.	Musicality – sense of rhythm, timing, and ability to follow melodies.
3.	Expression – ability to convey emotions and meaning through singing.
4.	Stage Presence – confidence and connection with the audience.
5.	Repertoire – knowledge of different songs and music styles.
6.	Breath Control – stamina to sustain notes and sing smoothly.
7.	Pronunciation and Clarity – clear delivery of lyrics.
8.	Professionalism – punctuality, respect, and dedication to practice and rehearsals.
9.	Adaptability – ability to adjust to different genres, keys, or performance settings.
C. Dancers 
Dancer is a person who uses body movements, often to music, to express emotions, tell stories, or entertain an audience. 
Section 1. Qualifications 
1.	Technical Skills – mastery of dance steps, techniques, and styles.
2.	Rhythm and Timing – ability to move in sync with the music.
3.	Flexibility and Coordination – control and ease of movement.
4.	Expression – ability to convey emotions and tell a story through dance.
5.	Stage Presence – confidence and ability to capture the audience’s attention.
6.	Physical Fitness – strength, stamina, and endurance for performance.
7.	Creativity – adding unique style or interpretation to movements.
8.	Adaptability – ability to perform different dance genres and adjust to choreography changes.
9.	Teamwork – working well with partners or groups in synchronized performances.
10.	Professionalism – dedication, discipline, and respect during practice and
D. Drum and Bugle Corps drum and bugle corps is a marching musical group that performs using drums, bugles (brass instruments), and sometimes other percussion, often combining music with choreographed marching formations. 
Section 1. Qualifications 
1.	Musical Skill – ability to play the assigned instrument (drum, bugle, or other percussion) correctly and in tune.
2.	Rhythm and Timing – strong sense of beat to stay in sync with the group.
3.	Marching Ability – coordination to play while moving in formation.
4.	Discipline – focus, self-control, and ability to follow instructions.
5.	Teamwork – working well with other members to create a unified performance.
6.	Physical Stamina – endurance to march and play for extended periods.
7.	Precision – accuracy in both music and marching movements.
8.	Adaptability – ability to adjust to different tempos, formations, and performance conditions.
9.	Commitment – willingness to attend regular practices and performances.
10.	Professionalism – punctuality, respect, and dedication to the group’s goals.
Note: For interested students; please provide your own Musical instruments (e.g. Lyre, snare drums, bass drums, tenor drums, cymbals, Bugles and horns) 
Chapter 9 STUDENT AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 
In pursuant to CHED Memorandum No.09 Series of 2013 on Students Affairs and Services Program and in accordance to the pertinent provisions of Republic Act (RA) No.7722, otherwise known as “Higher Education Act of 1994” pursuant to its commitment to relevant and efficient education in Talibon, Bohol hereby promulgate the following Guidelines on Student Affairs Program. 
A. Student Welfare Services 
Section 1. These are basic services that are necessary to serve the well-being of students. These include Information and Orientation, Career and Placement, Economic Enterprise Development, and Student Handbook Development. 
1.	Information and Orientation Services
Section 1. Information and Orientation Services are designed to help students adjust to their new academic environment and make the most of their educational experience.
Section 2. Orientation. This is a mandatory program for all incoming freshmen and transferees that introduces them to the college policies, rules, regulations, facilities, and services. 
Section 3. Information Drive. It is a program that provides students with information on various topics such as academic requirements, scholarships, financial aid, student organizations, campus events, announcements and other collegerelated matters. These are posted in bulletins, social media and other online platforms, or printed as brochures. 
2.	Career and Placement
Section 1. This service takes care of assisting students in Fand potentials, providing them information regarding the college course offerings and requirements, information on job trends, job referrals and employment opportunities.
3.	Economic Enterprise Development
Section 1. This refers to those services and programs that would cater to the other economic needs of students such as but not limited to:
a.	Student cooperatives
b.	Entrepreneurial
c.	Income generating projects
d.	Savings
Section 2. The College may establish mechanisms to promote and develop student economic enterprise but not limited to academic activities. 
4.	Student Handbook Development
Section 1. The student handbook is a valuable resource that contains important information about the college’s policies, procedures, and services. It also outlines the rights and responsibilities of students as members for the academic community.
Section 2. The handbook will be distributed to all students during their initial orientation session at the college. 
 Section 3. Students are expected to read the handbook carefully and keep it for future reference. 
B. Student Development 
1) Student Organization
Section 1. Any group of twenty-five (25) students desirous to form a student organization may apply for recognition of such organization to the Director of Student Affairs and Services.
a.	The following are the list of requirements that must be submitted by student organizations to the Student Affairs Services Unit:
b.	Proposed General Plan of Actions (with budget proposal for a semester or for a whole academic year)
c.	Constitution and by-laws duly ratified by its founding   members (for   new   student organizations);
d.	Application Form for Student Organization Statement of Involvement/ Commitment/ Acceptance of the President/ Adviser of the
Student Organization
e.	Information Sheet of Student Organization
Officers
f.	At no time in the organization’s existence should there be less than twenty-five (25) members involved in the said organization. The membership of the said organization shall be limited to bonafide students of the college.
Section 2. Constitution and By-Laws. Each student organization shall have a constitution and by-laws which shall be signed by its officers/members, checked by Adviser/Program Head, upon recommendation by the Director of the Student Affairs and Services and by the Vice President for Academic Affairs and approved by the College President. After the approval, it must be notarized for legal basis. 
Section 3. The period of application for accreditation of all student organizations shall be announced by the Office of Student Affairs and Services within 4 weeks after the start of the school year. Failure to comply with the deadline means non-accreditation/ recognition of the student organization. 
Section 4. The accreditation of student organizations shall be a requirement for its operation in the College. 
Section 5. A certificate of accreditation shall be issued by the Office of Student Affairs and Services to each student organization upon full compliance of the requirements herein prescribed; however, such certificate shall be effective for one school year only and will have to be renewed each succeeding year that the organization is in existence. 
Section 6. A newly organized student organization shall be placed on a one-semester period of probationary status prior to full accreditation. During such period, it shall be issued a permit to operate. The following are the privilege of a probationary student organization: 
a.	Probationary period last from one semester to one academic year depends upon the discretion of the SSG and OSAS.
b.	They will enjoy limited use of the school equipment and facilities as per approval of the SSG, OSAS, and the Manager of Building Maintenance and General
Services.
c.	They can only initiate student activities for student organization.
d.	The president will be part of the SSG Legislative Board.
Section 7. Any student organization which does not renew its organization for a period of one school year shall be considered inactive and maybe given a chance to renew its recognition provided that it submits a written explanation of its failure to reapply the previous school year. Any student organization that fails to renew its accreditation for more than one school year shall be considered defunct and has to undergo the same procedure as specified under section 1 Letter B of this Chapter. 
Section 8. An accredited or a recognized student organization shall be entitled to the following: 
a.	Use of the college facilities for its operation subject to institutional policies
b.	Represent the college in activities involving the organization outside the school subject to institutional policies; and
c.	Participate in college activities
d.	They are allowed to initiate incomegenerating activities subject for approval.
e.	They will enjoy access use of the school equipment and facilities as per approval of the SSG, OSAS, and the Manager of Building Maintenance and General Services.
f.	To avail of subsidies, if any, from the governing Supreme Student Council or its equivalent
g.	To have the opportunity to compete for awards involving student organizations.
h.	The president will be part of the SSG
Legislative Board.
Section 9. Any student organization which has been granted accreditation but violates its own statement of purpose/constitution and College policies as mandated by the student manual is liable to revocation of its certificate of recognition after due process. 
Section 10. Fraternities and Sororities are not allowed to exist in the College in any form. Only accredited organizations and clubs are allowed to operate in the university. 
2)	Student Leadership
Section 1. Leadership training is a program that provides opportunities to help student leaders improve their leadership skills and performance.
Section 2. It offers various activities and workshops that cover topics such as communication, teamwork, decision- making, conflict resolution, and ethical leadership. 
Section 3. This program also allows students to participate as official representatives in seminars, workshops, and conferences. 
3)	Supreme Student Government
Section 1. The college shall ensure the democratic existence of the Student Council. The Supreme Student Government (SSG) is the supreme body and the official representative of the student body, and it is recognized by Talibon Polytechnic College. Section 2. It shall have the authority to decide its policies and programs on matters within its jurisdiction, guided by its duly ratified constitution and policies.
Section 3. The school shall also provide a space or a hall for the office/s of the Student Supreme Council, without any charge.
Section 4. The SSG President shall be the head and chief executive officer of the student government. During his/her tenure of office, he/she should not hold any elective position in any political unit of the student body. He/She and other officers, as maybe provided for under the constitution of the student government, shall be elected by direct vote of students in the manner so provided in the constitution.
Section 5. Functions and Powers of SSC. The SSC, subject to existing College rules and regulations shall:
a.	adopt its own internal rules of government;
b.	organize, coordinate and direct student activities in all the campuses designed to improve the students’ general welfare as well as to prepare them for constructive
citizenship;
c.	represent the organization in outside organizations; 
d.	formulate resolutions and other rules to improve its effective ness and efficiency in governance as well as to support and pro mote the rights and welfare of students;
e.	advise, inform and make recommendations to the College President on student matters, affairs and activities;
f.	represent the student in all major policymaking bodies of the university when so provided by law, rules and regulations promulgated by competent authorities; and
g.	have such additional powers as college authorities may from time-to-time grant or delegate to it, consistent with its slated power, responsibilities and objectives.
Section 6. It shall be the duty of the SSG at all times to: 
a.	defend and promote the right and general welfare of the students;
b.	serve as an active forum for students’ sentiments and ideas;
c.	develop a university spirit among the ranks of the students;
d.	uphold the ideals of the university geared toward ensuring a well-rounded intellectual, social, cultural, civic and physical development of every student; and
e.	unite with various sectors of society in the pursuit of common interest; particularly in the establishment of a just and humane
society
Section 7. Funds, Appropriations and Budget of 
SSC 
a.	The general funds of the SSG shall consist of the student fees collected during every registration period.
b.	All funds collected shall be deposited in a bank. All money collected from students for a special purpose shall be treated as a trust fund and shall be paid out for such purpose only.
c.	All other income derived from other sources and other student fees shall likewise be treated as trust funds and shall be appropriated for special projects duly approved by the SSG upon a resolution.
d.	Immediately upon being elected and duly qualified to office and within a specific period, the SSG officers shall plan and prepare a budget for the proper appropriation of funds of the student government. This budget shall be subjected to a budget hearing by a budget committee composed of the Budget Officer, Internal Audit Director, Director of Student Affairs and Services, SSG Adviser, and SSG
President.
e.	No funds of the SSG shall be appropriated unless its appropriation is sanctioned under the approved budget.
f.	Budget appropriations shall be governed by the provisions of the constitution and bylaws of the student government.
g.	SSG will submit a Liquidation Report to the Officer of the Student Affairs and Services after every activity which involves a budgetary allotment. SSG will be given seven 
(7) working days to furnish the said report. 
h.	Liquidation Report must be posted on the SSG Bulleting Board/s.
4) Student Activities
Section 1. Student Calendar of Activities and Room Reservation. Student organizations may organize and hold social functions, cultural, educational, spiritual/religious, and sports activities. For activities to be held inside the campus, the proponents must observe the following procedures;
a.	Secure and accomplish the activity permit form to hold an activity and request for use of a campus facility.
b.	The signatures of the organization’s representatives and the faculty adviser are pre- requisites.
c.	Submit the duly signed activity permit together with the pertinent documents as per Local-In Campus and Local-Off Campus Activity to the Director of Student Affairs and Services two weeks before the scheduled time.
Section 2. For activities to be held off-campus, the students and the college shall be guided by CHED Memorandum Order No. 63 S. 2017 (Policies and Guidelines on Local Off-Campus Activities) Refer to Annex 
Section 3. Use of Campus Facilities. Student representatives of accredited student organizations may request authorization from the Office of the Director of Student Affairs and Services to sponsor academic, cultural, athletic, spiritual, or social activities, these groups may avail themselves of cam pus facilities for their club or class activities but only after securing the endorsement of the Director of the Student Affairs and Services, and approval of the concerned offices. Class section activities must be approved by their respective academic Deans. 
Section 4. The college shall allocate free hours per week for institution-wide and college-wide nonacademic assemblies/ activities. 
Section 5. In the interest of maintaining the academic atmosphere in the campus, activities outside the time slot provided for in the preceding section shall be conducted in enclosed areas, so as not to disturb normal classroom sessions. 
Section 6. Activities that are held should be scheduled at such time and place that would not disrupt normal classroom sessions. 
Section 7. No activity is allowed one week prior to major examinations. 
Section 8. All activities must be approved by the College President. 
5)	Fund-Raising Activity/Income Generating Activity Section 1. Only duly accredited student organizations are allowed to conduct fund-raising activities by filing a formal letter of application to the Director of Student Affairs and Services duly recommend by Adviser/Program Head/Dean. The letter should include: 
a.	Nature and purpose of the activity;
b.	Date/s, time and venue of the activity;
c.	The manner in which the funds raised shall be used; and
d.	The names of the members/officers directly in charge of the fund-raising activity.
6)	Off Campus Activities
Section 1. As per CHED Memo 63 s. 2017, OffCampus Activities refer to the activities which include all authorized HEI curricular and noncurricular activities undertaken outside the premises of the institution. This is divided into two categories:
a. Curricular Activities – required off campus activities and are integral part of the instructional program. Students are expected to attend these activities since these are part of the regular class time.
Example of these are the following:
1.)	Educational Tours (visit government sites, LGUs, museums, landmarks and related culture and arts activities, Plant Visit) 
2.)	Field Trips 
3.)	Field 	Study/Experiential 
Learning/Related Learning Experience 
b. Non-Curricular activities – off campus activities that are considered as noncurricular or non- programed based activities. It is up to the HEI’s discretion for the strategies and implementation of these activities as long as the security and safety
of the students are ensured. Examples are: 
1.)	Retreat or recollection 
2.)	Conventions, 	seminars,
trainings, teambuilding, conferences 
3.)	Volunteer programs/relief operations 
4.)	Advocacy projects and campaigns 
5.)	Sports activities 
6.)	Activities initiated by accredited student organizations 
7.)	Interschool tournaments/competitions 
8.)	Culture and arts competition 
Section 2. The following are the requirements/checklist that the students/faculty must secure before their off-campus activity: 
a.	For Curricular Off Campus Activities, the course syllabus must reflect the relevance of requiring an educational tour and field trip
	Conventions, 	seminars, 	trainings,
teambuilding, conferences
b.	Duly notarized consent of the parents or student’s guardian
c.	Medical clearance of the students duly signed by HEI or government physician
d.	First Aid Kit
e.	Designation 	or 	order 	from 	the
Administration indicating the Personnel-InCharge’s (PIC) role and responsibilities during and after the activities. Personnel-InCharge must be an employee of the HEI and must have an appropriate qualification and experience regarding the activity. He/She must also have a first aid and medical emergency training. Ratio of PIC is 1:35 – 50.
f.	Duly approved schedule of fees and budgetary breakdown 
g.	Proof of insurance coming from the HEI administration
h.	When using vehicles owned by the HEI for transportation, the following updated documents must be secured:
1.)	Vehicle Registration
2.)	Insurance Coverage
3.)	Driver’s License
4.)	Assurance of Certificate of
Roadworthiness 
i. For third party or sub-contracting vehicle, the following must be secured:
1.)	Franchisee: 
a.)	Certification from LTFRB indicating the validity of the franchise 
b.)	Special Permit from LTRFRB if transportation is out of line 
c.)	Updated and valid registration of vehicle, insurance coverage, driver’s license, assurance/certificate of road worthiness 
2.)	Travel and Tour Operator: 
a.)	Copy of Travel and Tour Operator 
Accreditation Certificate by DOT 
b.)	Duly approved Plan/Itinerary of travel by HEI 
c.)	Certification from LTFRB indicating the validity of the franchise 
d.)	Updated and valid registration of vehicle, insurance coverage, driver’s license, assurance/certificate of road worthiness 
j.	Whenever necessary, a copy of letter sent to LGU/NGO and copy of acknowledgement letter from LGU/NGO 
k.	Minutes and attendance of the briefing and consultation conducted by the students, faculty, parents and stakeholders.
l.	Letters to parents, students and adult companions regarding the activity which must be sent to them 1 or 2 months prior to the activity
m.	Appointment with conforme of Personnel-In-
Charge
n.	Itinerary and Handy Information Materials for Students (i.e. programme)
o.	Learning Journals
p.	Appropriate Report with regard to the Emergency Preparedness Plan
Section 3. During the off-campus activity, the Personnel- In-Charge must accompany the students from time to time and check the attendance. A contract of service must also be secured between the third party pertaining to the mobility/ transportation. 
Section 4. After the off-campus activity, the following will be submitted by the students and the Personnel-In-Charge: 
a.	Learning journals/paper reflecting the students’ observations, learnings, findings and experience
b.	Assessment or Breakdown of Expenses including receipts
c.	Report on the debriefing program conducted Section 5. Submission of Reports. The following reports must be submitted in compliance with CMO 63 s. 2017. The forms
to be used for these reports can be downloaded at the CHED websites: 
d.	Certificate of compliance – duly notarized signed by personnel in charge, the VPAA and the College President which indicates that all requirements are all completed. It must be submitted to CHEDRO 15 days before the activity.
e.	Report of compliance - duly notarized and signed by personnel in charge, the VPAA, reviewed by the Dean or Program Head and the College President indicating all the list of activities and corresponding compliance. It must be sub mitted to CHEDRO 15 days before the activity.
f.	Comprehensive semestral/term report must be submitted to CHEDRO at the end of the semester.
Section 6. Exemptions for the Submission of Reports. The following are the exceptions for the submission of the abovementioned reports: 
a.	HEIs awarded with Level II accredited programs, Center of Excellence and Development, Deregulated, Autonomous, SUCs with at least Level III accredited programs. However, they are still required to submit Certificate of Compliance.
b.	Non-curricular Off Campus activities and field study/ experiential learning/related learning experience activities. However, for purpose of transparency, activities should be posted in conspicuous place and the website of HEI if available.
5. Student Publication
A.	Preliminaries
Section 1. The College shall provide opportunities for student publication in keeping with the students’ constitutional freedom of speech and of press. 
Section 2. All matters governing any kind of student publication shall be covered herein and governed by pertinent rules and regulations issued by CHED from time to time.  
Section 3. Any Adviser, whether of a publication by a student organization or the official student publication shall be charged with the following duties and responsibilities: 
a.	To guide the editorial board in technical matters pertaining to the production of every issue of the publication;
b.	To guide the staffers in matter affecting their specific articles to be submitted for publication particularly those that may violate existing laws, institutional policies, rules and regulations and public policy, decency and customs;
c.	To supervise the printing of every issue of the publication so as to meet the due date distribution; and
d.	To upgrade the competencies of the staff through on-the-job training and other forms for training programs.
B.	College Publication 
Section 1. A publication whether printed or mimeographed, can only obtain official recognition if it is sponsored by an accredited student organization after it has been registered in the Office of Student Affairs and Services. 
Section 2. The printing of any publication may use existing funds of the organization if and only if it has been given due recognition. Cost of printing and materials accrued by an organization without official sanction will be charged to whoever is responsible. 
Section 3. To obtain official recognition, the following procedures must be followed: 
a.	The student organization/college publication must present a proposal which shall specify the following: 
b.	The purpose of the periodical or newsletter congruent to the field of interest or specialization of the sponsoring group;
c.	A listing of the editorial board of the newsletter or periodical. In case competitive exams and screening are necessary, an interim board must be duly appointed by the officers and/or adviser of the organization and their names must be included;
d.	The number of copies to be printed and circulated as well as the recipients of the publication;
e.	A budget with a breakdown of cost duly certified by the president/chairman and treasurer of the organization sponsoring the publication;
f.	An adviser or board of advisers as the case may be chosen from among the faculty members of the College; and
g.	The publication will receive official recognition only after the requirements have been fulfilled and approved by the Director of Student Affairs and Services.
Section 4. The following documents must be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs and Services before starting to publish their newspaper issues: 
a.	Contract 	to 	Print 	between 	the
Publication and Printing/ Publishing
Company
b.	Business Permit –	Renewal
of Printing/Publication Company 
c.	Certificate of	Incorporation of the Printing/Publication Company 
d.	Printing quotation
e.	Certification	of 	Registration of 	the 	Publication/Publishing Company 
Section 5. Three (3) copies of every issue of the publication must be submitted to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services on the day of actual circulation. These copies are for file and the future examination of the Committee on Stu dent Publications. 
Section 6. Failure to comply with the above requirements will war rant disciplinary measures on the Editorial Board of the erring publication and on the president/chairman of the sponsoring student organization. 
	Section 	7.	A	Committee 	on 	Student 
Publications (CSP) will be convened to assess the technical quality and performance of all student publications throughout the school year. 
Section 8. The Committee on Student 
Publications shall be composed of the advisers and the editor-in-chief of the student publication, the student representative appointed or endorsed by the Supreme Student Government and one student representative to be selected and endorsed through a joint agreement by accredited student organizations. 
Section 9. The Committee on Student 
Publications will have the following powers and functions: 
a.	To assess the performances of various student publications (periodicals, magazines, newsletters and others) one month prior to the end of every semester based on clear and promulgated criteria agreed upon by its members;
b.	To provide recommendations for the improvement of the technical and professional qualities of various publications;
c.	To validate or suspend the continuation of existing privileges of the members of the Editorial Board based on their performance as manifested by their publications; and
d.	To ensure that all guidelines for student publications are implemented.
Section 9. Students are given full responsibility for materials published whether printed or copy printed for the consumption of the college. 
a.	All materials in periodicals, magazines, newsletters and handouts, must carry by-lines which give proper and definite identification of the writer/s;
b.	The Editorial Board of the publication and the officers of the duly accredited student organization sponsoring the material will be held solely responsible for the repercussions arising from legal or legislative violations in the content of materials without by-lines;
c.	All handouts, painted, printed, copy printed, and circulated in the campus and sponsored by the accredited student organizations should bear the signature of its elected president and chairman; and
d.	The Editorial Board of the various publications will be held responsible for all comments, issues, validity and veracity of information found in the editorial essays.
Section 10. SSG/ Publication (Kasikas) will submit a liquidation report to the Officer of the Student Affairs and Services after every activity which involves a budgetary allotment. SSG or Kasikas will be given seven (7) working days to furnish the said report. 
C. Official Student Publication (KASIKAS) 
Section 1. Aims and Purposes of the Student Publication (KASIKAS). The Student Publication (KASIKAS) shall be the official newspaper to the students of TPC. It shall be devoted primarily to the publication of news that are of general interest to the students; and it shall not be used as a medium for the promotion of personal and regional interests. Further, the Student Publication shall be utilized to: 
a.	train interested students in the application of art and science of journalism;
b.	serve as a channel of unifying all members of the university and the community towards desirable educational and cultural development objectives;
c.	advocate social consciousness and uphold the interest of the Filipino people; and
d.	advance students’ rights and responsibilities as well as promote their general welfare.
Section 2. Funding of Student Publication. 
Student subscriptions and revenues realized from advertisement, donations and grants shall be the sources of funding for the Student Publication. Subscription fees from students shall be collected during enrollment period. 
Section 3. Use of Student Publication Funds. 
Subscription fees, savings, donations, grants and other funds collected from other sources for the Student Publication shall be for its exclusive use. The money collected shall be spent for the printing cost of the student paper, transportation, meals and needs of the staff and faculty-adviser during press work, office and photo supplies, attendance of Student Publication representatives and faculty-adviser at press conference/ workshop, honoraria/ allowances for staffers and faculty-adviser, and other incidental expenses. 
Section 4. Printing of Student Publication. The printing of the Student Publication by a private printer shall be conducted by the editorial board and the student publication staff through canvass or public bidding. 
Section 5. Publication Adviser. The Faculty Adviser of the Student Publication shall be selected by the school administration in coordination with the editorial board. The function of the Faculty Adviser shall be one of the technical guidance, provided, however, that he/she shall not alter contents nor censor articles or determine allocation of fund. For this reason, the Student Publication Adviser or the college administration shall not be held responsible or accountable for any breach of law-regulation pertaining to press media matters. The editorial board, with the exception of the Faculty Adviser, shall be held jointly and fully responsible for the contents of the Student Publication. 
Section 6. Selection of Staff Members 
a.	The selection of the editor-in-chief and the staff members of the Student Publication shall be through competitive written examination prepared, conducted and supervised by a committee composed of a representative of the college administration, one faculty member, one mass media practitioner who is acceptable to both (school administration and editorial board) and two past editors of KASIKAS to be chosen by the outgoing editorial board with approval of the
Director of Student Affairs and Services, in the absence of one member as mentioned above, the Faculty Adviser has the right to appoint his/her Editorial-In-Chief solely based on the aforementioned qualification and meet the basic requirements. 
b.	Only regular, bonafide students having general weighted average of “2.5” or better and without any of “5” or “Inc.” or without having been dropped in any course during the previous semester are qualified to take the exam. Candidates must present a written certificate from the Guidance Counselor/ Discipline Officer stating that they have not been the subject of disciplinary action or misconduct of any kind and that they are responsible persons of good character.
c.	The student receiving the highest general average rating in the examination shall ipso facto qualify as editor-in-chief. In case of tie, the journalistic training and experience of the candidates shall be taken to break the tie.
d.	No editor-in-chief shall be allowed to hold any major position in any accredited student organization in the college. This is to ensure his/her total commitment to the Student
Publication office.
e.	The other members of the Student Publication staff shall be nominated by the editor-in-chief from among the top-ranking examinees in the editorial exam subject to the approval of the Faculty Adviser.
Section 7. The term of office of the editor-in-chief and his/her staff shall be for one academic year or until the selection of his/her successor. On the recommendation of the Faculty Adviser and on the approval by the Director of Student Affairs and Services, the editor-inchief and his/her staff may work during summer, subject to such restriction and conditions as may be imposed by the Administration. 
Section 8. Any student writer may be liable for libel when he/she causes the publication of his/her writing which give public and malicious imputation of a crime or of a vice or defect, real or imaginary, or any act, omission, condition or status, or circumstances tending to cause dishonor, discredit, or contempt of a natural or judicial person. 
Section 9. Expulsion or suspension of staffers shall be implemented by the Head of Student Publications Unit upon consultation with the Editorial Board members and after due process. 
Section 10. The following shall be grounds for expulsion or suspension of any staffer from the Official Student Publication: 
Section 11. Duties and Responsibilities. The Official Student Publication is expected to prepare, publish and circulate their materials to the College community with utmost feasible frequency. All publications will be assessed as to quality as well as frequency of release. 
Section 12. All money disbursements must be the responsibility of the editor-in-chief, the managing director (business manager) and the adviser. In the absence of the editor-in-chief, the signature of the adviser with a reasonable explanation for the proxy attached will be accepted. In the absence of the managing editor (business manager), the signature of the members of the Editorial Board upon consultation with the adviser will validate the requisition. 
Section 13. All expenditures must be supported by official receipts to be submitted to the Business Manager for accounting. 
Section 14. Facilities of the Student Publication Office may be utilized only by members of the Editorial Board and their staff. Publication equipment and supplies may not be taken out of the office or venue where the staffers hold office. 
Section 15. Violation of rules regarding publication policies designed by the editorial board and policies on professional journalism as specified under Sec. 8 of this Chapter is subject to suspension or expulsion and in extreme cases, disciplinary action. 
ARTICLE IV CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE 
Chapter 1 PRELIMINARY 
Section 1. The Provisions of this part on matters pertaining to rules of discipline with the jurisdiction of the College Discipline Officer or Office of the Student Affairs and Services shall be reconciled according through an adopted system of approval without prejudice to consultation with students duly represented by their leaders.  
Section 2. At all times, every student must promote and maintain the peace and tranquility of the College by observing the rules of discipline, and by exerting efforts to attain harmonious relationships with fellow students, the teaching and academic staff and other school personnel  
Section 3. The investigation, disposition and corresponding sanctions of students’ disciplinary cases shall follow the proceeding set by the proper forum established herein. 
Section 4. All officials, faculty and staff and security force of the College are mandated to enforce and supervise overall compliance to the provisions of this part in their respective areas of responsibilities. All student officers may be called upon to assist in the enforcement of the rules of discipline whenever feasible and/or relevant. 
Section 5. Pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, faculty and persons charged with the supervision of students shall be deemed persons in authority and should, therefore be accorded due respect and protection. 
Section 6. The disciplining authority who is the College 
Discipline Officer or the Office of the Student Affairs and Services shall mete out the punishment recommended by the constituted bodies under this part in accordance with due process. 
Section 7. In meting out punishments, the same penalties shall be imposed in each case. A progressive system of punishment shall be maintained. 
Section 8. Rights of Respondents. In addition to the rights guaranteed under Article I Chapter 3 of this Manual, every respondent shall enjoy the following specific rights: 
a.	To be subjected to any disciplinary penalty only after the requirements of due process shall have been fully complied with;
b.	To be penalized only on a basis of substantial evidence/s the burden of proof being with the person filing the charge;
c.	To be penalized on the basis of evidence/s introduced at the proceedings of which the respondent has been properly appraised and given the opportunity to rebut the same;
d.	To enjoy pending final decision on the charges, all his/her rights and privileges as a student. Subject to the recommendation of the College Discipline Board (CDB) or the Office of the Student Affairs and Services, the College Discipline Officer or OSAS Director may order the preventive suspension of the respondent for not more than fifteen (15) days where suspension is necessary to maintain the security of the College;
e.	The College Discipline Board is composed of the following as appointed by the College President: 1. College Dean concerned (Voting)
2.	Student Government representative (Voting)
3.	College Guidance Counselor (in case of tie)
4.	College Discipline Office (Voting)
5.	Director of Student Affairs and Services (Voting)
6.	Vice President for Academic Affairs (Approving
Officer)
f.	To defend himself/herself personally or by counsel, or by representative of his/her own choice. If the respondent desires, but is unable to secure the services of counsel, he/she shall manifest the fact at least two (2) days before the date of hearing and request the College Discipline Board or Office of the Student Affairs and Services to designate a counsel for him/her from among the faculty members and staff of the College. 
Chapter 2 NORMS OF CONDUCT 
Section 1. Every student must be imbued with patriotism and nationalism, love of humanity, respect for human rights, civic conscience, ethical and moral values, moral character and self-discipline in keeping with the man dates of the educational system under the Philippine Constitution. 
Section 2. For the guidance of all concerned, the following norms of conduct and discipline of student are hereby promulgated, namely: 
a.	Moral Character. A student is imbued with moral character if among other qualities:
1.	Has learned to act, live and think as a person whose values, attitudes and convictions are in accord with the Universal Ethical Norms of Right Reason and the accepted values and levels of conduct in the society where he lives;
2.	Is honest to himself/herself, accepting his/her shortcomings and striving to improve or change them;
3.	Is fair and just in his/her dealings with his/her fellowmen;
4.	Lives by the precepts of love, justice, compassion and concern for other; and 
5.	Respects and defends the right of others as he/she wants his/her own rights to be respected and defended.
b.	Personal/Self Discipline. A student is imbued with personal self-discipline if among other qualities:
1.	Is devoted to the fulfillment of all obligations and considers his/her rights as a means for the fulfillment of such obligations;
2.	Learns to forge the enjoyment of certain rights and privileges that others’ needs maybe benefited;
3.	Resolves problems and conflicts without prejudicing others;
4.	Is tolerant of others; humble enough to accept opinion that may be better than his/her;
5.	Avoids vices, e.g. gambling, drinking alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs, sexual excesses and aberrations, etc. and
6.	Guides and controls his/her life, actions and emotions.
Chapter 3 NON-ACADEMIC POLICY 
A.	School Identification Card 
Section 1. All students are required to secure the official student identification card immediately and must be validated by the College Registrar after enrolment. The school ID card is to be worn upon entry and while inside the school premises at all times. The loss of a School ID should be promptly reported to the Student Affairs Services either in written or verbal form. It must be accompanied by an Affidavit of Loss. The OSAS will issue a temporary entry pass which will serve as a student pass until the new school ID is issued. 
Section 2. In case of shifting from one course to another, the School ID must be surrendered to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services. The OSAS will issue a temporary entry pass which will serve as a student pass until the new school ID is issued. 
Section 3. In case of graduate students or students opted to transfer to other institutions or school, students must surrender their school ID at the Office of the Student Affairs and Services upon signing the transferred-out clearance. 
B.	School Uniform 
Section 1. All students are required to wear the prescribed school uniform on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays but must wear decent and appropriate attire in compliance with the College Dress Code on other days. Violators shall be brought to the Office of the Student Affairs Services office for proper action before they will be allowed entry to their classes. The faculty members are important partners of the Office of the Student Affairs Services office in monitoring the compliance of students to this and other school policies. 
Section 2. For the wearing of On-the-Job Training (OJT)/Internship/Practicum uniforms, the department/program must submit to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services a letter with the design/image of the uniform and the list of students enrolled in the course for the semester for approval and coordination with the security office. 
Section 3. To avail of the uniform exemption, a signed letter of application for uniform exemption with the corresponding documentary attachments and noted by the Program Head/Dean must be submitted to the Office of the Student Affairs Services for approval. Uniform Exemption Pass is issued by the Office of the Student Affairs Services to the following: 
a.	Pregnant students
b.	Cross-enrollees
c.	Religious Orders
d.	Other special considerations would depend on the weight of the request.
Students exempted from wearing the prescribed school uniform should come to school in decent and appropriate attire (refer to Dress Code).  
Section 	4. 	When 	they 	enroll 	in 
OJT/Practicum/Internship/RLE they must abide by the uniform policy and dress code of the partner institution or company where they will undertake the program as ascertained by the dean or program head. 
Section 5. On special occasions departmental shirts or other appropriate attire are allowed upon the written request of the Dean/Department Head addressed to the VP for Administration through Office of the Student Affairs and Services. 
Section 6. The female skirt school uniform must be kneelevel in length. Shoes must be black, formal-designed closed shoes. 
C.	Dress Code 
Section 1. All students are required to wear decent and appropriate attire when inside the campus. The following are not allowed in the campus: 
a.	Spaghetti Strap
b.	Sleeveless
c.	Tube
d.	Crop Top
e.	Off Shoulder
f.	Shorts
g.	Micro-mini-Skirt
h.	Tattered Jeans
i.	Slippers
j.	All types of Sandals
k.	Crocs
l.	Open shoes
D.	LGBTQIA+ 
Section 1. Members of the LGBTQIA+ community are welcome to Talibon Polytechnic College having the same rights as students of the College. 
Section 2. LGBTQIA+ members for them to be recognized in the school campus must submit a letter of intent and it will be duly acknowledged by the LGBTQIA+ organization president. 
Section 3. They are allowed to their preferred haircut but limited to its color and design but subject to the approval and instruction of the Director of the Student Affairs and Services. 
Section 4. They are allowed to be in cross-dressed attire but limited to skirt, they wear women’s blouse and pants but not skirt. 
Section 5. They will strictly use the comfort rooms not according to their preference but according to their sex organs. 
Section 6. They are allowed to wear female footwear but limited to sandals and open footwear upon entering the school premise as prescribed in the College Dress Code. Section 7. Strictly no earrings. 
Section 8. They can hold activities but limited to drag race, exposing body fashion program, and other same activities. 
Section 9. All activities are subject for the approval from the Office of the Student Affairs and Services, Vice Presidents for Academic Affairs and Administration, and College President. 
Section 10. Disregarding the said rules and regulations is subject for consequences with due process. 
E. Others 
Section 1. Students with multiple piercings in the ear and body piercing on other visible parts of the body will not be allowed in the campus and will be confiscated. 
Section 2. Earrings on men and boys are strictly prohibited and will be confiscated. 
Section 3. Colored hairstyle in all respect is strictly prohibited except for those who are naturally born brown/blonde hair or those already have white hairs. They have given options to color black their hair but in case they opted not, they will seek approval to the Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services. 
Section 4. Members of LGBTQIA+ community are allowed to their preferred haircut but limited to its color and design but subject to the approval and instruction of the Director of the Student Affairs and Services. 
Chapter 4 GROUNDS OF DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS AND SANCTIONS 
Section 1. No student shall be meted out any form of disciplinary actions except for causes as provided by the provisions of this part and by appropriate authorities after due process. 
Section 2. Suspension as a formative intervention can range from a minimum of three (3) days to a maximum of one year. The following rules shall govern the formative intervention of suspension. 
a.	During the period of suspension, the student shall be deemed divested of all privileges as a student of the institution and shall not be allowed to enter the premises of any campus or use any facilities of the college. The student ID shall be confiscated and deposited with the Director of Student Affairs and Services up on the execution of the order. Discipline officers or their equivalent shall be properly notified of students serving the formative intervention of suspension.
b.	After serving the period of suspension, the student shall be issued an order lifting the suspension and subsequently clearing him/her of the sanction thereof. Once cleared, all privileges as a student are restored and ID is returned to him/her. 
c.	Any student whose suspension covers the final examination period will have to miss the final examination. In all cases of suspension, a written promise of future exemplary conduct by the student countersigned by his/her parents or guardian is required as a condition for readmission and shall be filed in his/her folio.
Section 3. The penalty of dropping shall consist of either dropping from the college or dropping from all subjects. Dropping from the college shall consist of the total ban of the student from enrolling in any course offered by the institution. Dropping from the subject shall consist of dropping him/her from the subjects without prejudice to his/her enrolling in the same subjects but in another semester/year as the case may be. The Registrar shall be duly notified of this sanction imposed upon the student. 
Section 4. Expulsion shall carry with it the total ban of the student from enrolling in any course offered by an institution in the country within a period of one year from the date the order became final and binding. The Registrar shall be correspondingly notified of the students who have been meted with this sanction. 
Section 5. Aggravating, mitigating and alternative circumstances of any kind as provided by law in the commission of the acts shall be considered in the imposition of the formative intervention. 
Section 6. The nature and extent of participation of the respondent in the offense charged against the student shall be considered on the imposition of the formative intervention. 
Section 7. The formative intervention of warning, reprimand, and apology shall be executed strictly in accordance with the decision of the case. 
Section 8. Minor Offenses. The following shall be grounds for disciplinary sanctions of minor offenses: 
a.	Inappropriate/non-wearing, lending, borrowing of Identification (ID) and library cards. The college adheres to the NO ID/NO UNIFORM, NO ENTRY policy. (Refer to Annex for the proper uniform and for the College Dress Code). Students can temporarily use their COR and Temporary ID issued by Registrar if they lost their ID or if it was broken. A notarized affidavit of loss will be presented to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services and such office will issue a recommendatory notice to the IT Department for the procurement of the new ID.
b.	Improper/inappropriate use of school uniform/dress code
c.	Disrupting 	academic 	functions 	(class,
organization activities, academic activities, co- curricular activities)
d.	Unauthorized use of school facilities, equipment, properties and the like
e.	Use of cellular phones or any similar communication/electronic gadget during class hours
f.	Smoking within the school premises
g.	Littering
h.	Loitering
i.	Other minor offenses
Section 9 Formative Intervention for Minor Offenses: 
a.	First Offense – verbal reprimand/warning with record at the Student Discipline Office and Office of the Student Affairs and Services (nonissuance of good moral certificate for three months)
b.	Second Offense - written reprimand and promissory note with record at the Student Discipline Office (non-issuance of good moral certificate for one semester)
Section 10. Major Offenses. The following shall be grounds for disciplinary sanctions of major offenses; 
a.	Dishonesty such as the following or any similar act;
1.	Stealing or an attempt thereof;
2.	Cheating in examination and/or quizzes or any similar acts such as the following:
b.	Deliberately looking at neighbor’s examination papers;
c.	Copying from or allowing another to copy from one’s examination papers;
d.	Having somebody else take the examination for another (in which case both shall be liable);
e.	Communicating verbally and non- verbally without permission during examinations;
f.	Passing as one’s work any assigned report, term paper, case study/analysis, reaction paper and the like, when copied from another;
g.	Using or bringing out of cellular phones or
any communication gadget during examinations or quizzes whether or not the student uses them 
h.	Oppression such as the following or any similar act;
1.	Threatening another with infliction upon his/her person, honor, or property;
2.	Fighting or resorting to physical force or violence to settle disputes provided that the party who acted in self-defense shall be exempted from punishment;
3.	Direct assault either verbal or physical upon the person of any student, faculty, administrative or non-teaching staff or any person;
4.	Willful suppression of another person’s duly constituted rights;
5.	Cyber Bullying or any forms of abusive, hurtful, imitating, intimidating and humiliating texts, emails/message, social media post, images and videos; and
6.	Provision on R.A. 9442 “Title IV: Prohibitions on Verbal, Non-Verbal Ridicule and Vilification Against Persons with Disability”
7.	Misconduct such as the following or any similar act:
a)	Deliberate disruption of an academic function or school activity which tends to create disorder, tumult, blades 	of 	peace 	or 	serious
disturbances;
b)	Carrying or possession of firearms, or unauthorized carrying of deadly weapons (e.g. lead pipe, ice picks or blades and explosives such as firecrackers and pyrotechnics) within the premises of the college;  
c)	Unauthorized or illegal possession or use of prohibited drugs or chemicals such as marijuana, shabu, heroin, rugby and hallucinogen drugs or substances in any form within the school premises; or the possession of any regulated drug without the proper prescription (as included in the Dangerous Drug Act/Law);
d)	Possession and/or bringing or drinking of alcoholic beverages within the school premises or attending on campus and off- campus activities in a state of intoxication;
e)	Willful disregard or violation of established policies and regulations of the College;
f)	Malicious or unfounded accusation of any member of the academic community and college visitors.
g)	Disgraceful, immoral, fraudulent and or unlawful conduct such as the following or any similar act:
1.)	Display and distribution of pornographic materials within and during on/off campus academic and co-curricular activities, through published or electronic materials 
2.)	Illicit relationships (relationship with married individuals, with members of the academic and non-academic staff) 
3.)	Acts of disorder, lewdness or obscene conduct and acts of intimacy within the school premises and during on and off- 
	campus 	academic 	and 	co-
curricular activities 
4.)	Impersonating or giving of fictitious names with malicious intent 
5.)	Intentional making of false statement of any material fact or practicing or attempting to practice any deception or fraud for such purposes as admission or registration in or graduation from the College. 
6.)	Acts of bribery to corrupt the standards of the College. 
7.)	Harassment (verbal/physical) which tends to put any member of the students, faculty, administration or non-teaching staff or any person of authority in ridicule or contempt. (Violence Against Women and Children Law) 
8.)	Sexual 	harassment 
(physical/verbal) committed by students, faculty, administration or non- teaching staff, faculty or any per son with authority, influence or moral ascendency as included in Republic Act 7877 (Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995) 
9.)	Any acts that transgress gender equality and sensitivity and other similar forms of discrimination towards the opposite sex. 
(Gender Sensitivity Act) 
10.)	Unauthorized solicitation of funds or promoting the sale of tickets in behalf of private enterprises that are not intended for charitable or public welfare purposes 
11.)	Forging, tampering, alteration or misuse of official academic records or documents of any kind 
12.)	Gambling of any form within the premises or during offcampus academic or co-
curricular activities 
13.)	Willful refusal to pay just debts 
14.)	Insubordination such as: 
A.)	Willful disobedience to any just order of any person in authority within the College premises including related school activities held offcampus. 
B.)	Any other similar acts 
i.	Conduct prejudicial to the best interest of the College such as:
1.	Vandalism	or 	destruction 	of public/college property 
2.	Acts that bring the name of the institution or any of its member into disrepute such as public malicious imputation of a crime or a vice or defect, real or imaginary, or an act, omission, condition, status or circumstance, which tends to cause dishonor, discredit or contempt to the name of the institution or any negligent act that leads to the above;
3.	Any other similar acts
j.	Abuse of authority, rights and privileges such as:
1.	Appropriating college properties for personal use;
2.	Committing indecent and unlawful acts in the exercise of his rights or privileges;
3.	Unauthorized posting of notices in any form;
4.	Unauthorized publication of printed and broadcast materials and distribution thereof to members of the academic community
5.	Unauthorized extension of time and use of facilities in con ducting student activities
6.	Failure to comply with the summons/sanctions imposed under the College Student Manual
7.	Hazing defined as an act with which endangers the mental or physical health of a student for the purpose of initiation, admission in, affiliation with or as conditioned for continues membership 	in 	a 	group 	or organization. 	(Sanctions 	as determined 	by 	the 	College 
Disciplinary Board based on Anti-
Hazing Law); 
8.	And other similar acts
Section 11. Formative Intervention for Major Offense: 
a.	First Offense – minimum of seven (7) school days suspension to one semester suspension
b.	Second Offense – minimum of twenty-one (21) school days’ suspension to one (1) year suspension.
c.	Third Offense – expulsion/dismissal from the College
Section 12. Inclusion of the following based on the final recommendation of the College Disciplinary Board: 
a.	Suspension includes number of hours of inhouse service to the College
b.	Loss of privileges to attend classes including exams or other academic and extra-
curricular activities
c.	Official College Records will be on-hold such as transcript of records, certification of grades and the like.
d.	Non-issuance of certification of good moral character;
1.	First Offense – non-issuance for three months
2.	Second Offense – non-issuance for one semester
3.	Third Offense – non-issuance of good moral character
ARTICLE V ADMINISTRATIVE DUE PROCESS 
Section 1. An administrative due process refers to the procedural fairness that schools must provide to students before imposing formative intervention like suspensions or expulsions. It ensures students are treated fairly and have a chance to respond to accusations. Key elements include proper notice of charges, the right to a hearing, and a decision based on evidence.  
Section 2. Disciplinary matters are those acts of students referred to in the College Student Manual that need formative intervention through Warning, Reprimand, Suspension, Exclusion or Expulsion. It is conducted if there is a complaint, letter, report or memo pertaining to an alleged commission of an act by any student of the College that may be considered as a misconduct, offense, infraction or violation of a policy, rule or regulation of the College. 
Section 3. The procedure is aimed at determining whether a student, who is under investigation for the commission of an alleged misconduct, offense, infraction or violation of any of the college policies, rules or regulations, is liable or not; and if so, the proper formative intervention shall be meted, but if not, the case shall be dismissed. 
The procedure is as follows: 
A. Complain report 
Section 1. The complaint, letter, report or memo (hereinafter referred to as “COMPLAINT”) may be made by any concerned or interested party, such as a student, a trainee, a parent, an employee, an office head, an administrator, TPC itself, and others. The parent or guardian may also assist his/her child/ward or directly complain on behalf of the student.  
Section 2. In the exercise of its management prerogative, TPC through any of its office heads may, motu proprio or at its own initiative, request for or initiate an administrative investigation of a student. Moreover, if warranted by circumstances, TPC through any of its office heads, particularly the program head or dean of the concerned or affected student or students, motu propio or acting upon a directive from a TPC higher official, may conduct an inquiry on any matter it may deem proper and necessary for fact-finding purposes, and if the results thereof require that a disciplinary administrative investigation be conducted, the office head concerned shall submit his/her memo or report with a request for such an investigation to be conducted by TPC.  
Section 3. In fact, it is a serious obligation on the part of any College official or personnel to report immediately to his/her superior within 24 hours (personally or through memo or phone) or as soon as practicable any information or knowledge of an offense, wrongdoing, misconduct, or violation committed by his/her student. 
1. Complainant. The complaint must be in writing and signed. As much as possible, the complaint shall provide the following information:
a.	The name and residence, office or school address of the
complainant;
b.	The name and residence, office or school address of the respondent; c. The substance, cause or basis of complaint;
d.	When and where the act reported or complained of happened; and
e.	The name(s) of any witness(es) thereto other than the complainant, if any.
2.	Office/Personal to whom the case may be filed.
a.	The complaint may be filed with the office of the President, Vice President, Student Affairs Services Director, Guidance Counselor or Immediate 
Academic Head of the student to be investigated.
b.	Any complaint, letter, report or memo of an act, violation, misconduct or infraction committed by a student of the College requiring a disciplinary administrative investigation received by any official shall be forwarded to the Immediate
Academic Head of that student. If the Immediate Academic Head is involved as the complainant or respondent, the complaint shall be forwarded to the Vice
President for Academic Affairs (VPAA).
3.	Start of the Investigation
a.	Upon receiving an information or knowledge, or upon receipt of such complaint, the Immediate Academic Head or VPAA shall do any of the following:
1.)	If the complaint is sufficient to initiate a disciplinary administrative investigation (that is, the alleged facts are clear and there are available sufficient evidence), the Immediate Head will immediately refer the matter to the Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and 
Services by way of a report or memo. 
2.)	If the complaint appears to be lacking clear factual allegations, parties involved and/or evidence, the Immediate Academic Head shall immediately conduct a fact-finding inquiry to further clarify certain matters, or obtain additional facts. If the initial findings establish a conclusion of a probable commission of the alleged misconduct, offense, infraction or violation that requires a disciplinary administrative investigation, he/she will submit his/her findings in a report or memo to the SAS Director. 
3.)	If there is no particular complaint to an incident, but the Immediate Academic Head has received a report thereof or such an incident has come to his/her knowledge, he/she shall immediately conduct a factfinding inquiry in order to protect the rights and interests of the University and of the affected individuals. If the result thereof establishes a conclusion of a probable commission of a misconduct, offense, infraction or violation that requires a disciplinary administrative investigation, he/she will submit his/her findings in a report or memo to the Director of the Student Affairs and Services. 
4.	Duty of the Director of the Student
Affairs and Services
a.	The Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services will evaluate and determine whether or not there is still a need to further clarify certain matters, or additional facts must still be obtained. Hence, the Director of the Student Affairs and Services shall do any of the following: 
1.)	If there is still a need to further clarify certain alleged matters, or if additional facts must still be obtained, the Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services will refer back the matter to the Immediate Academic 
Head for further fact-finding inquiry, that is, meetings and interviews of persons having knowledge of the surrounding circumstances, requiring their statements to be put into writing or affidavit. Later on, if the finding is that a misconduct, offense, infraction or violation had probably been committed by a certain student, the Immediate Academic Head shall make a written memo/report thereof to the Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services for appropriate action. 
2.)	If the alleged facts are clear and there is sufficient evidence that respondent probably committed the alleged misconduct, offense, infraction or violation, or the 
Immediate Academic Head already submitted a subsequent memo or report with a finding that the alleged misconduct, offense, infraction or violation had probably been committed by respondent, the Director of the Student Affairs and Services shall do any of the following: 
a.) If the misconduct, offense, infraction or violation is sanctionable by 
	WARNING 	or 
REPRIMAND, the Office of the Student Affairs and Services shall be 	the 
Investigating Officer and shall proceed with the conduct of the administrative disciplinary investigation, 
starting from issuance of the 
	Notice 	of 
Investigation 
addressed to complainant and respondent, copy furnished the offices of the President and VP Academic Affairs. 
b.) If the misconduct, offense, infraction or violation is sanctionable by SUSPENSION, 
EXCLUSION or EXPULSION, the Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services shall refer the matter by memo to the Office of the 
President, 
through the VP Academic Affairs, requesting that the BOARD OF DISCIPLINE be convened to conduct the 
investigation, indicating therein the name of complainant and respondent, the general description of the alleged misconduct, offense, infraction or violation to be investigated, and attaching thereto the available evidence (reports, affidavits and/or written 
statements of witnesses, and other papers, documents or things, if any). 
B.	Preventive Suspension Pending Investigation 
Section 1. At the start or at any stage of the investigation process before the final decision, the Director of the Student 
Affairs and Services, motu proprio or upon recommendation of the Vice President for Academic Affairs, the College President or the Board of Discipline, may place a student to be investigated or already under investigation under preventive suspension for a period not prohibited by the Commission on Higher Education rules and regulations. 
Section 2. The preventive suspension period served to a student shall be deducted from the penalty of suspension that may later be imposed on the student, if any. However, in the event that a student is found innocent, the period of preventive suspension shall not be counted against the students and he shall be allowed to take the missed examination missed and submit the missed subject requirements, if any. 
C.	Notice of Investigation; Answering of Respondent Section 1. The Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services or the Board of Discipline shall issue a Notice of Investigation to respondent student stating therein the following: 
a.	the alleged misconduct, offense, infraction or violation in general terms against him/her, furnishing him/her a copy of the complaint and the attachments thereto, if any;
b.	the law, policy, rule or regulation being violated with corresponding sanction;
c.	the date, time and place where the initial conference/hearing will be conducted;
d.	the requirement for him/her to submit his/her written answer/ explanation and supporting documents, if any, and to furnish a copy thereof to the other party (complainant) through the Investigator within five (5) working days from receipt of the said notice;
e.	the reminder of his/her rights to be represented by counsel if he/ she so desires, to examine the evidence against him/her, and to present evidence on his/her own behalf; and
f.	the notice that if respondent student refuses or fails to submit his/her answer/explanation, such refusal shall be deemed a waiver to present evidence on his/her own behalf, and the investigation will proceed and will be decided based on the evidence adduced during the investigation.
D.	Notification of Complainant for Parents or Guardians 
Section 1. The Board of Discipline thru the Office of the Student Affairs and Services shall furnish a copy of the Notice of Investigation to complainant. If it is a student who is complaining without assistance from his/her parent/s or guardian, the Board of Discipline shall notify his/her parent/s or guardian accordingly at their last known address per school records. If the parent/s or guardian cannot be contacted or fail to come during the investigation despite the notice, the investigation shall proceed accordingly. 
E.	Initial Conference/Hearing 
Section 1. During the initial conference/hearing, the Office of the Student Affairs and Services shall determine whether there is a prima facie case to proceed further with the investigation or dismiss the complaint or terminate the proceedings. It is well to note that the veracity or truthfulness of the allegations of complainant and respondent will only be determined by the Board of Discipline when he/she renders his/her decision in the resolution. Moreover, the issues will be clarified, stipulations and admissions will be made, or the parties will explore the possibility of settling amicably the personal claims of the complainant, if any, without prejudice to the respondent being investigated further to determine whether or not respondent is liable for having violated any of the College policies, rules or regulations, and the appropriate formative intervention thereto, if any. 
Section 2. In the event that before or during the scheduled initial conference/hearing respondent admits in writing the allegations against him/her, or the facts are clear to the Board of Discipline, the case may be deemed submitted for decision based on the complaint and the answer unless the Board of Discipline will require submission of position papers. 
F.	Summary Judgement 
Section 1. If on the basis of the documents submitted (such as the letter, report, answer, supporting papers and other evidence), the Board of Discipline finds that there is already sufficient basis to render judgment (as when the facts and issues are already clear to the Board of Discipline or when there is admission of guilt), it may immediately render summary judgment during the initial conference, or it may consider the case submitted for decision, and the parties shall be informed accordingly of the resulting written resolution. 
G.	Judgement Based on Position Papers 
Section 1. Whenever summary judgment is not appropriate, the Board of Discipline shall direct the parties to the case to simultaneously submit their position papers with written statements or affidavits of witnesses and other supporting evidence within three (3) working days from date of the initial conference/hearing where the directive is given, or if given later after from notice of the order, after which the case shall be deemed submitted for decision. If one party refuses or fails to submit his/her position paper and additional supporting evidence, the same shall be deemed a waiver on the part of that party to present further evidence, and the case shall be decided based on whatever documents or evidence found in the record. 
Section 2. In case the written statements of witnesses and parties are not notarized, the individuals concerned shall be required to appear before the Board of Discipline to affirm or swear on the veracity of their written allegations. 
H.	Judgement After Further Hearing 
Section 1. Where the Board of Discipline finds that there are complicated factual issues involved which cannot be resolved through position papers, or which need further clarification for better understanding, or there are other witnesses who may be called or presented to testify to shed light on certain factual issues, it shall conduct further hearing. The Board of Discipline, if necessary, shall direct the parties and other persons to appear before it to answer classificatory questions. Any employee or student who refuses to attend and testify in the hearing shall be reported to the Office of the Vice President for Administration or HRMD or Office of the Student Affairs and Services for appropriate action. For this purpose, the Board of Discipline will then proceed to ask questions first to complainant and his/her witnesses, and second to respondent and his/her witnesses. After a witness has been asked by the Board of Discipline, any of the contending parties or their counsel, if represented, may examine further the witness by submitting written questions to the Board of Discipline, who will then read the questions to the witness for his answers. However, the Investigator may allow the counsel to directly ask the questions to the witness. Minutes summarizing the proceedings shall be in writing and signed by the Board of Discipline, the parties, and their counsels, if any. 
I.	Resolution of the Case, Finality of 
Resolution/Decision, Motion for Reconsideration, and Appeal. 
Section 1. The Board of Discipline shall decide the case within fifteen (15) working days from the last hearing or on the date stated in its Order stating that the case is deemed submitted for decision (for instances when position papers are required to be submitted before judgment). The resolution should be based on the evidence adduced during the investigation and the applicable law, policies, rules or regulations. The resolution must contain these essential parts:  
1.	statement of the case;
2.	finding of facts, issues;
3.	discussions of the issues, applicable laws, policies, rules and/or regulation; and
4.	dispositive portion with recommended formative intervention to be imposed or appropriate action to be taken. The parties shall be furnished a copy each of the resolution.
Section 2. The Board of Discipline may ask for extension of the period to decide on a valid ground. The Office of the College President may extend the period for the Board of Discipline to decide the case if it will find the ground relied upon by the Investigator to be valid and reasonable. 
Section 3. If respondent is found liable, the possible formative intervention that may be recommended may either be Warning, Reprimand, Suspension, Exclusion or Expulsion. However, if a case involves theft, non-liquidation of funds, actual damages resulting from respondent’s act or negligence, or analogous cases, the resolution or decision may include the directive to return the stolen object or pay its value, or pay a specific sum of money. 
Section 4. The resolution of the Board of Discipline is final unless appealed to the Office of the President within five (5) working days from receipt of the decision. A motion for reconsideration shall be considered an appeal. The appeal or motion for reconsideration, filed by any of the parties with the Board of Discipline, with a copy thereof furnished by the movant/appellant to the other party through the Board of Discipline, shall state the reason or reasons why the resolution of the Board of Discipline should be reversed, modified, or set aside, and a new one is to be rendered by the President. 
Section 5. The other party (appellee) shall have three (3) working days from receipt of the motion or appeal within which to file his/her Comment or Opposition to the said motion or appeal. After the lapse of the period to submit the Comment or Opposition, with or without the opposition, the Office of the College President shall review the records of the case and render decision based on the evidence adduced during the investigation and the applicable laws, policies, rules and/or regulations, either affirming, reversing, modifying, or setting aside the resolution of the Board of Discipline and render a new one, or directing whatever the College President may deem necessary and proper.  
Section 6. The decision of the Office of the College President is immediately final and executory upon issuance thereof, unless otherwise stated therein. 
J.	Action of the President on Unappealed Resolution Section 1. If the resolution of the Board of Discipline is not appealed within the reglementary period, said resolution shall be immediately endorsed to the Office of the College President for its final determination whether or not to approve its execution or for whatever action it may deem necessary and proper (such as to order a reinvestigation, or to review and render a new decision modifying or amending the previous one). The action of the Office of the College President shall constitute the final decision. 
K.	Furnishing Copy of Resolution or Decision 
Section 1. Complainant, respondent and the student’s/students’ parent/s or guardian/s shall each be furnished a copy of the resolution or decision through the Office of the Student Affairs and Services, by personal service or by special mail delivery through private courier (such as LBC, JRS or DHL), or by registered mail at their last known addresses per school records. 
L.	Student Misconduct Record (SMR) 
Section 1. After finality of the resolution/decision, the Director of the Office of the Student Affairs and Services prepares the Student Misconduct Record (SMR) in four (4) copies describing the nature of the infraction and quoting the dispositive portion of the final resolution/decision. 
Section 2. Copies of the SMR shall be distributed as follows: 
1.	First copy - Respondent student
2.	Second copy - Dean or Program Head of respondent student
3.	Third copy - Department Guidance Office
4.	Fourth copy – Office of the Student Affairs and Services
M.	Court Action Against Respondent Student 
Section 1. The administrative investigation or the formative intervention meted shall not prejudice the right of the College, the complainant or the victim to initiate court action against the respondent student if warranted and opted by the former. 
ARTICLE VI THE OFFICE OF TREASURER 
Section 1. The Office of College Accounting and Finance is headed by the Treasurer who takes care of the financial operations of the school. 
Section 2. All financial transactions shall be made with the Accounting and Finance Office ONLY. 
ARTICLE VII THE OFFICE OF THE COLLEGE REGISTRAR 
Section 1. The Office of the College Registrar plans, organizes, and coordinates activities associated to the registration, transfer, release and graduation of students, maintenance and safekeeping of records, consolidation of class and examination schedules in coordination with the Department Head or Deans, communication with the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) pertaining to academic records of students and observance of policies and guidelines. 
ARTICLE VIII EDUCATION TOUR/FIELD POLICIES AND GUIDELINE 
The primary objective of the school field trips is to provide an educational experience in keeping with planned curriculum, while exposing students to new cultural and physical opportunities not found in daily life. Moreover, field trips are designed to encourage group participation and bonding among the students and teachers. With those objectives in mind, the following guidelines have been designed to help students, teacher, chaperones, and parents get the most of their field trip experience. 
A. Student’s Roles 
Section 1. All students are expected to participate in field trips but not forcibly imposed. 
Section 2. Because field trips are an opportunity for students to stretch themselves in new and unique ways, Students should show a positive attitude when facing unfamiliar situations or challenges. 
Section 3. Throughout the field trip, students are expected to uphold regular school rules and show respect for each other, teacher and other adult supervisor. 
Section 4. During a field trip, students are representative of our institution, so their behavior should reflect that at all times. 
Section 5. Field trips begin at the designated meeting place (usually the town bus or ferry terminal) if a student requires alternative arrival, departure, or other transportation arrangements, parents must notify teacher in writing prior to the trip. 
B. Teacher’s Roles 
Section 1. Teachers are to design field trip experiences that appropriately dovetail with the existing curriculum, provide unique experiences are age appropriate for the students participating, and are of reasonable cost. 
Section 2. Teachers shall determine the number of chaperones needed for a field trip. 
Section 3. Teachers shall coordinate with the transportation to and from the event, assess costs, assign chaperone duties, and make other logistical arrangements well in advance of the field trip. 
Section 4. Teachers shall then communicate those plans to the College President for Board of Trustees’ approval. 
Section 5. Once a field trip has been organized and approved, teacher shall be responsible for fund raising and communicating logistical plans to parents and obtaining permission slips from them. 
C. Personnel In-Charge 
Section 1. The role of the Personnel In-Charge (PIC) is to support teachers and to provide additional supervision for the entire group of students, as needed. They may be called on to perform a variety of roles, depending on the nature of the trip. 
Section 2. PIC support the educational or cultural nature of the event and should provide a positive example of the students. 
Section 3. They are to work with the entire group or with a small group of students, as directed by the teachers. 
Section 4. Prior to and throughout the trip, PIC should be in communication with teachers to determine specific roles and responsibilities. 
Section 5. PIC help teachers monitor student behavior and refer any issues to teachers. 
Section 6. Students are under the direct supervision of the teacher in-charge at all times. 
Section 7. During overnight field trips, PIC is responsible for student supervision 24 hours a day, unless otherwise determined by teachers, and should remain with the group throughout the entire field trips. 
Section 8. PIC may not bring non-students on the trip. 
Section 9. PIC should not smoke in the presence of students or any enclosed areas. 
Section 10. PIC shall not drink alcohol or use illegal drugs at any time. 
Section 11. PIC, who drive their personal vehicles, carrying students, must provide evidence of liability insurance and a valid driver’s license. 
D.	Parents’ Participants 
Section 1. If a parent wants to go on a school trip to provide additional support for his or her own son/daughter due to a certain situation like having special needs, this may be permissible given the following guidelines: 
1.	Parent participants should consult with teacher prior to the trip to determine the level of participation that is appropriate.
2.	Any additional expenses that a parent’s presence incurs, including lodging, food, admission to events or programs, and travel expenses, will be the parents’ responsibility.
3.	In order to avoid potential disruptions or distractions, parents are discouraged from bringing pre-school siblings of students.
4.	In the interest of preserving the objectives of the field trip and enhancing their son’s/daughter’s experience as a part of the group parent participants may not remove their son/daughter activities, including transportation to and from the event, except in true emergency situations.
5.	Parent participants are not to smoke in the presence of students or in any enclosed areas.
6.	Parent participants are not to drink alcohol or use illegal drugs at any time.
7.	Parent participants who drive their own vehicles assume all liabilities.
E.	Checklist of Requirements 
Section 1. Before the Educational Visit/Tour/Trip 
1.	Permission Letter from the Personnel In Charge to the President (with the signature from the Dean of the requesting party Office of the Student Affairs and Services. Vice President for Academic Affairs)
2.	Attached to the Permission Letter is the curriculum where field trip is required and a particular syllabus of the subject which needs a field trip to enhance the subject matter with or allotted grade as part of the grading system can be found in the Student’s Handbook approved by the Board of Trustees and be presented every General Orientation among freshman students. 
3.	Copy	of 	the 	approval 	letter offices/companies/plants where the tour will be conducted. 
4.	Fill up the Activity Permit Form to hold Educational Field Trips from the Tour Coordinator.
5.	Itinerary of the Tour (approved by the Dean of the requesting party, noted by the VPAA and attested by the President).
6.	Attendance Sheet/List of students with their signatures who are joining the trip Waiver/Parent’s consent.
7.	Budget/Funding Resources
8.	Copy of Insurance Policy with the list of students concerned stakeholders.
9.	Medical clearance of students.
10.	List of the teachers/chaperones (I faculty/staff for every 50 students)
Section 2. After the Educational Visit/Tour/Trip 
1.	Duly signed and accomplished Attendance Sheet including the attendance before leaving the campus, during the educational tour, and arrival at the campus.
2.	Learning journal of students highlighting the essential lessons and learning they have.
3.	Evaluation result form.
ARTICLE IX ON THE JOB TRAINING/PRACTICUM/INTERNSHIP POLICIES AND GUIDELINE 
Section 1. During the practicum/OJT, the students are assigned to participating establishments where they are given work experience in the various as1p0ec1ts. Student’s enrolled need to be screened first by the Practicum/OJT Coordinator. The screening schedule will be posted in the enrolment of every department. 
A.	Objectives 
Section 1. Exposure to the different work situation is designed to provide students an opportunity to experience and observe the application of theories they have learned in the classroom in an actual workplace. The training will enable him/her to develop the necessary conceptual, technical know-how and the human aspects necessary to start work. 
1.	General Objectives
Section 1. To provide students the opportunity to acquire practical knowledge, skills, and desirable attitudes in the operational aspects of the industry.
a.	To make them internationally competitive for employment here and abroad.
b.	To develop and enhance the Filipino work ethics, competencies and discipline.
2.	Specific Objectives
Section 1. At the end of the practicum training program, the student should be able to:
a.	Associate key positions in the industries and related operations to corresponding tasks and responsibilities.
b.	Identify and comprehend standard procedures and techniques of each of the sections/department assigned.
c.	Perform the specific tasks required in sections/department assigned.
d.	Appreciate the importance of efficient operational policies and procedures in relation to the overall management.
e.	Analyze and evaluate operational procedures in each assigned department and recommend to appropriate course of action to improve them.
Section 2. With these, students and practicum coordinators of both educational participating institutions will be guided in preparing the practicum training that can best achieve these objectives. 
B.	Guidelines/Rules to be Observed by Practicum Students 
1.	Grooming
Section 1. Always take a second look at yourself before reporting to duty. See to it that “Good Grooming” rules are followed. 
Section 2. Always be in your proper and complete uniform when on duty, unless specifically asked by your supervisor to wear casual clothes for heavy work; however, leave the establishment wearing your prescribed uniform. 
Section 3. Always wear your nameplate for identification purposes (if available) 
2.	Behavior/Deportment
Section 1. Be courteous at all times to both clients and employees. Never be rude to them. 
Section 2. Be tactful and diplomatic in dealing with clients and employees. When client is angry, never show anger yourself. Remember, the customer is always right. 
Section 3. Be interested in people but don't get too personal. 
Section 4. Socializing with any of the clients or employees of the establishment as well as having personal relationships with them before, during or after practicum duty is strictly prohibited. Do not accept invitations from them to attend functions such as birthday or beach parties and concerts or to go to bar hopping, shopping, and watching movies. 
3. Performance while on Duty
Section 1. Observe professionalism during the course of your practicum training.
Section 2. Observe workflow and standard operational procedures in the Department - if you have questions ask the Section Head. 
Section 3. If you are provided with an establishment’s rules, read and follow strictly. 
Section 4. Strictly follow instructions/assignments given to you by your supervisor. 
Section 5. Obey your supervisor and do not show insubordination to him. 
Section 6. Always give prior notice to your supervisor if you will be absent or late for duty. Excuses for such should be reasonable. 
Section 7. Be careful and show enthusiasm while doing your work. 
Section 8. Stay in the department you are assigned. Do not loiter around while on duty. 
Section 9. Be courteous at all times to both clients and employees. Never be rude to them. 
Section 10. Be tactful and diplomatic in dealing with clients and employees. When client is angry, never show anger yourself. Remember, the customer is always right. 
Section 11. Be interested in people but don't get too personal. 
Section 12. Socializing with any of the clients or employees of the establishment as well as having personal relationships with them before, during or after practicum duty is strictly prohibited. 
ARTICLE X TRANSITORY PROVISIONS 
Section 1. Repealing Clause. Any provisions of this Student Manual or any part thereof that are found to be contrary to or inconsistent with the Philippine Constitution or with laws, decrees, rules and regulations are deemed null and void. 
Section 2. Separability Clause. If any part, chapter or section or provision of this Student Manual shall be held unconstitutional, no other part, chapter, section or provisions thereof shall be affected thereby. 
Section 3. Adoption. This Manual may be adopted by TPC provided that the students duly represented by its chosen leaders/officers shall be involved in the consultation hearings to be conducted in the college which seeks to adopt this Student Handbook. 
Section 4. Ratification. The adopted Student Manual may be sub mitted for ratification by the students. 
Section 5. Effectivity. The duly ratified Student Handbook shall be effective immediately upon approval by the Board of Trustees. 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE 
DATA PRIVACY CONSENT FORM 
Statement of Privacy Policy 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE (TPC) is committed to protecting the privacy of its data subjects, and ensuring the safety and security of personal data under its control and custody. This policy provides information on what personal data is gathered by TPC about its current, past, and prospective students; how it will use and process this; how it will keep this secure; and how it will dispose of it when it is no longer needed. This information is provided in compliance with the Philippine Republic Act No. 10173, also known as, the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (DPA) and its Implementing Rules and Regulations (DPA-IRR). It sets out TPC’s data protection practices designed to safeguard the personal data of individuals it deals with, and also to inform such individuals of their rights under the Act. 
This Data Privacy Notice and Consent Form may be amended at any time without prior notice, and such amendments will be notified to you via TPC’s website or by email. 
Privacy Notice 
Information Collected 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE collects, stores, and processes personal data from its current, past and prospective students, starting with the information provided at application through to information collected throughout the whole course of study at the College. This will include: 
1.	Contact information, such as, name, addresses, telephone numbers, email addresses and other contact details
2.	Personal information, such as date and place of birth, nationality, immigration status, religion, civil status, student ID, government-issued IDs, web information, recommendations and assessment forms from previous schools, etc.
3.	Family background, including information on parents, guardians, siblings, related TPC alumnae, etc.
4.	Photographic and biometric data, such as, photos, CCTV videos, fingerprints, handwriting and signature specimens
5.	Student's school works, including data gathered using third party online learning tools, such as, Schoology and other related.
6.	Health records, psychological evaluation results, disciplinary records, and physical fitness information
7.	Student Cumulative Guidance Folder, which includes interviews, entrance exam results, guidance assessments, special needs, exclusions/behavioral information, etc.
8.	Permanent Student Academic Records, including transcripts and the academic history of the student in TPC.
9.	Student extra-curricular activities, résumés, job interview forms
10.	Financial and billing information
Use of Information 
The collected personal data is used solely for the following purposes: 
1.	Processing of admission application and student selection (and to confirm the identity of prospective students and their parents)
2.	Verifying authenticity of student records and documents
3.	Processing of scholarship applications and its ongoing requirements
4.	Processing of enrollment and registration
5.	Supporting student learning, and validating students’ program of study based on curriculum requirements, and other activities and experiences forming part of the student’s formation and education.
6.	Supporting the student’s well-being and providing medical services and guidance counselling
7.	Monitoring and reporting on student progress; processing of evaluations, exam results, and grades
8.	Monitoring and ensuring the safety of all students within the TPC campus
9.	Processing and generating statements of accounts
10.	Processing of application for graduation
11.	Evaluation for board examinations
12.	Documentation of students’ data
13.	For accreditation, professional development of teachers and staff, and research, e.g., evaluation studies by the research desk, action research by teachers, etc.
14.	Posting or displaying of academic and non-academic achievements within the TPC’s premises and/or its official website and social media accounts and/or school publication
15.	Marketing and promoting TPC, its students, employees, and other academic and non-academic student and/or school activities inside and outside the campus
16.	Providing Library services, running an outreach program, family council purposes, job postings, practicums, internships, employment
Information Sharing 
Personal data under the custody of TPC shall be disclosed only to authorized recipients of such data. Otherwise, we will share your personal data with third parties, other than your parents and/or guardian on record for minors, only with your consent, or when required or permitted by our policies and applicable law, such as with: 
1.	Regulatory authorities, courts, and government agencies, e.g., Commission on Higher Education, etc.
2.	Service Providers who perform services for us and help us support your learning, monitor and report on your progress, manage the operations of our school, and assess how well TPC is doing.
3.	Business partners and other academic linkages who provide internships and job opportunities to our graduates.
Data Transfer 
Where TPC consider it necessary or appropriate, for the purposes of data storage, processing, providing any service or product on our behalf to you, or implementing an academic linkage program, we may transfer your personal data to third parties within or outside of the Philippines, under conditions of confidentiality and similar levels of security safeguards. 
Security 
1.	We continue to implement organizational, administrative, technical, and physical security measures to safeguard your personal data.
2.	Only authorized personnel have access to your personal data, the exchange of which (mainly within campus) is facilitated through internal shared servers, email, and paper files.
3.	Should third parties need access to your personal data, we require some form of data sharing agreement with them, in compliance with the DPA and the DPA-IRR.
4.	Your paper and digital files are securely stored: employing physical security to safeguard the paper files and technical security to protect the digital files.
Retention of Information 
We keep your paper and digital files only for as long as necessary. 
1.	The Permanent Student Academic Records are kept by the College Registrar Records Office for 50 years after last graduation from TPC.
2.	The College Registrar Admissions files are kept for five years.
3.	Application forms and documents of unsuccessful applicants are kept by the Admissions Office – five years for college records.
4.	Scholarship application forms and supporting documentation are kept by the Scholarship Office or Office of Student Affairs and Services for four years, or until the scholar graduates.
5.	The Student Cumulative Guidance Folders are kept by the Registrar’s Office for five years after graduation.
6.	Student school works are kept for five years, but, in
a few cases, selected student works may be retained for 10 years as exemplars. 
7.	Student disciplinary records are stored by the Office of Student Affairs and Services, for five years after graduation.
8.	The class records are kept for one year after graduation.
9.	Non-academic records, e.g., service records for college scholars, extra-curricular activities, emergency contact forms, etc. are kept for five years.
10.	Financial and billing information are kept by the Scholarship Office for 10 years.
11.	The Clinic retains health records for five years after graduation.
12.	CCTV cameras are the responsibility of Facilities; some cameras have memory for a month of CCTV videos, and older ones for less. The cameras run continuously on a rolling basis, where older videos are overwritten as the memory fills up.
13.	When your personal data is no longer needed, we take reasonable steps to securely destroy such information or permanently de-identify it. Paper files are securely shredded; and electronic information is deleted and Secure Erase applied so that this is no longer recoverable nor reproducible.
Your rights 
1.	You have the right to be informed, object to processing, access and rectify, suspend or withdraw your personal data, including, any such information held by third parties, with whom TPC have a data sharing agreement; and be indemnified in case of damages pursuant to the provisions of the DPA and the DPA-IRR.
2.	If you want to exercise any of your rights, or if you have any questions about how we process your personal data, please contact the Office of the Registrar or the Office of the Student Affairs and Services, through the following channels:
talibonpolytechniccollegetalib@gmail.com 
Call +639536729213 
The Office of the Student Affairs and Services 
 San Isidro, Talibon, Bohol, Philippines 
3.	If you have a concern or complaint about the way we are collecting or using your personal data, you should raise your concern with us in the first instance or directly to the National Privacy Commission. 
Privacy Consent 
My signature below affirms that I have read TPC’s Data Privacy Notice and express consent for the college to collect, store, and process my(our) Personal Data set forth in the notice for the purposes stated therein; primarily, for school administration, and for TPC to meet its statutory obligations to its students and graduates. 
____________________________________________ Printed Name and Signature  
____________________________________________ 
Date 
SIGNED IN THE PRESENCE OF: 
____________________________________________ Printed Name and Signature  
____________________________________________ Date 
____________________________________________ Printed Name and Signature  
____________________________________________ 
Date 
STUDENT-RELATED LAW AND MEMORANDA 
Philippine laws and CHED Memorandums are duly observed by the college. The purpose of STUDENT- RELATED LAWS AND MEMORANDA is to provide guidance and direction for the implementation of policies and programs that affect the rights, welfare, and development of students in the educational system. These laws and memoranda aim to ensure that students are protected from discrimination, harassment, violence, and other forms of abuse, and that they are given equal opportunities to access quality education and participate in curricular and cocurricular activities. They also see to promote the values of academic integrity, social responsibility, and civic engagement among students, as well as to foster a culture of excellence, innovation, and collaboration in the learning environment. 
Excerpts of Student-Related Laws and Memoranda will be provided in a different handbook. These are not exhaustive and are subject to change. 
1.	Anti-Hazing Act of 2018
2.	The Campus Journalism Act of 1991
3.	Anti-Violence Against Women and Their Children Act of 2004
4.	Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995
5.	Safe Spaces Act
6.	Data Privacy Act of 2012
7.	Student’s Rights Against Unreasonable Searches and Seizures
8.	Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002
9.	CHED Memorandum on Drug Testing
10.	Magna Carta for Disabled Persons
11.	CHED Memorandum on Field Trips
12.	CHED	Memorandum on International 
Educational Trips 
13.	Commonwealth Act 142 on the Use of Aliases
14.	Republic Act No. 11036 or Mental Health Act
15.	Republic Act No. 10931 or Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act
16.	Republic Act No. 10687 or the Unified Student
Financial Assistance System for Tertiary
Education Act
17.	Republic Act No. 10627 or the Anti- Bullying Act of 2013
18.	Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE 
COURSES AND PROGRAMS OFFERED 
1.	Bachelor of Arts in English Language (BAEL)
2.	Bachelor of Arts in Political Science (BAPoS)
3.	Bachelor of Science in Agriculture (BSAgri)
4.	Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information
Systems (BSAIS)
5.	Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BSCrim)
6.	Bachelor of Science in Information Systems (BSIS)
7.	Bachelor of Early Childhood Education (BECEd) 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE PROSPECTUS 
Bachelor of Arts in English Language (BAEL) 
1st Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 100 	Introduction to the English 
Language System 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 1 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 2 	Readings in the Philippine 
History 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 3 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 4 	Art Appreciation 	3 	3 	0 	
RIZAL 1 	Life and Works of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Physical Fitness and Health 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
1st Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 102 	Theories of the Language and 
Language Acquisition 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 100 
ELS 103 	History of English Language 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 102 
GE 5 	Understanding the Self 	3 	3 	0 	GE 4 
GE 6 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	GE 5 
LIT 1 	Philippine Literature 	3 	3 	0 	
GE ELECTIVE 1	Living in the IT Era 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 2 	Dance and Rhythmic 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 1 
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
2nd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 104 	English Phonology and 
Morphology 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 103 
ELS 105 	English Syntax 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 104 
ENGLISH 
121 	COGNATE 1: Introduction to 
Pragmatics 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 7 	The Contemporary World 	3 	3 	0 	GE 6 
GE 8 	Science, Technology, and 
Society 	3 	3 	0 	GE 7 
LIT 2 	English American Literature 	3 	3 	0 	LIT 1 

2nd Year First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
GE 
ELECTIVE 
2 	Indigenous Creative Crafts 	3 	3 	0 	GE 
ELECTIVE 
1 
PATHFIT 3 	Individual and Dual Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 2 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 106 	Semantics of English 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 105 
ELS 107 	English Discourse 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 106 
ELS 108 	Stylistics 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 107 
ELS 127 	COGNATE 2 Introduction to 
Anthropological Linguistics 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 121 
ELS 133 	Major 1: ELT Approaches and 
Methods 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 
ELECTIVE 
3 	Great Books 	3 	3 	0 	GE 
ELECTIVE 
2 
FL 1 	Elementary Spanish 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 4 	Team Sports 	3 	3 	0 	PATHFIT 3 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 109 	Language of Non-Literary Text 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 108 
ELS 110 	Language of Literary Text 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 109 
ELS 138 	COGNATE 3: Technical 
Writing in the Profession 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 127 
ELS 134 	MAJOR 2: Instructional 
Materials Development and 
Evaluation 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 133 
ELS 135 	MAJOR 3: English Language 
Testing and Assessment  	3 	3 	0 	ELS 134 
FL 2 	Intermediate Spanish 	3 	3 	0 	FL 1 
	TOTAL 	18 	18 	0 	
3rd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 111 	Language of Non-Literary Text 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 110 
ELS 112 	Computer Mediated 
Communication 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 111 
ELS 136 	MAJOR 4: Foundations of 
English Language Testing and 
Assessment 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 135 

3rd Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 142 	COGNATE 4: Language and 
Journalism 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 138 
ELS 199 	Language Research 1: 
Methodology 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 112 
FL 3 	Elementary Mandarin 	3 	3 	0 	FL 2 
	TOTAL 	12 	12 	0 	
4th Year, First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ELS 150 	COGNATE 5: Special Topics in English Across Profession 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 142 
ELS 137 	MAJOR 5: English Language 
Curriculum and Development 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 136 
ELS 200 	Language Research II: 
Undergraduate Thesis 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 199 
FL 4 	Intermediate Mandarin 	3 	3 	0 	FL 2 
	TOTAL 	12 	12 	0 	
4th Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PRACTICUM 	Internship/On-the-Job 
Training (324 hours) 	6 	6 	0 	
	TOTAL 	6 	6 	0 	
Bachelor of Arts in Political Science (BAPoS) 
1st Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PSMC 101 	Fundamentals of Political 
Science 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 1 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 2 	Readings in the Philippine 
History 	3 	3 	0 	
EC 1 	Living in the IT Era (with 
Computer Fundamentals) 	3 	3 	0 	
FILIPINO 1 	Komunikasyon sa 
Akademikong Filipino 	3 	3 	0 	
RIZAL 	Life and Works of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Physical Fitness and Health 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
1st Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PSMC 102 	Introduction to Philippine 
Politics and Governance 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 101 
GE 3 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 4 	Art Appreciation 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 5 	Understanding the Self 	3 	3 	0 	
FILIPINO 2 	Pagbasa at Pagsulat sa iba’tibang Disiplina 	3 	3 	0 	FILIPINO 1 
EC 2 	Gender and Society with 
Gender and Development 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 2 	Dance and Rhythmic 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 1 
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
2nd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PSMC 103 	Philippine Public 
Administration 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 102 
GE 6 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 7 	The Contemporary World 	3 	3 		
EC 3 	Philippine Popular Culture 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 8 	Science, Technology, and 
Society 	3 	3 	0 	

2nd Year First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
FILIPINO 3 	Mabisa at Masining sa 
Pagpapahayag 	3 	3 	0 	FILIPINO 2 
PATHFIT 3 	Individual and Dual Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 2 
	TOTAL 	20 	20 	0 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PSMC 104 	Politics and Governance on 
Southeast Asia 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 103 
PSMC 105 	Introduction to Political 
Science 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 104 
LIT 1 	Philippine Literature 	3 	3 	0 	
IE 1 	Dynamics of Social Change 	3 	3 	0 	
PSE 101 	Municipal Government 
Structure 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 4 	Team Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 3 
	TOTAL 	17 	17 	0 	
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PSMC 106 	Introduction to Comparative 
Politics 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 105 
PSMC 107 	Introduction to International 
Relations 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 106 
PSE 102 	Introduction to Law 	3 	3 	0 	PSE1 
IE 2 	Persons and Family Relations 	3 	3 	0 	IE 1 
LIT 2 	English American Literature 	3 	3 	0 	LIT 1 
	TOTAL 	15 	15 	0 	
3rd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PSMC 108 	Introduction to Political 
Analysis and Research 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 107 
PSMC 109 	Qualitative and Quantitative 
Analysis of Political Data 	3 	3 	0 	PSMC 108 
PSE 103 	Parliamentary Procedures and 
Debate 	3 	3 	0 	PSE 102 
IE 3 	Philippine Civil Service 
System 	3 	3 	0 	IE 2 
THESIS 1 	Research Methodology 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	15 	15 	0 	

4th Year, First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
THESIS 2 	Thesis Writing 	3 	3 	0 	THESIS 1 
PSE 4 	Philippine Foreign Relations 	3 	3 	0 	PSE 103 
IE 4 	Political Law 	3 	3 	0 	IE 3 
	TOTAL 	9 	9 	0 	
4th Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PRACTICUM 	Internship/On-the-Job 
Training (300 hours) 	3 	3 	0 	ELS 142 
	TOTAL 	3 	3 	0 	
 
Bachelor of Science in Agriculture 
1st Year, First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 101 	Introduction to Agriculture 	3 	3 	0 	
ENGLISH 1 	Study and Thinking Skills in 
English 	3 	3 	0 	
SCIENCE 1 	Environmental Science 	3 	3 	0 	
MATH 1 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
AHL 1 	Understanding the Self 	3 	3 	0 	
FILIPINO 1 	Komunikasyon sa 
Akademikong Filipino 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Physical Fitness and Health 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
1st Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 102 	Agricultural Extension and 
Communication 	3 	3 	0 	AGRIC 101 
SOIL SCI 1 	Principles of Soil Science 	3 	2 	3 	
ANIM SCI 1 	Introduction to Animal 
Science 	3 	2 	3 	AGRIC 101 
CROP SCI 
1 	Principles of Crop Production 	3 	2 	3 	AGRIC 101 
ENGLISH 2 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	ENGLISH 1 
FILIPINO 2 	Pagbasa at Pagsulat sa Iba’tibang Disiplina 	3 	3 	0 	FILIPINO 1 
PATHFIT 2 	Dance and Rhythmic 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 1 
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	23 	20 	12 	
1st Year, Summer 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PRACTICUM 	Internship/OJT (Skills 
Development) 	6 			
2nd Year First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CROP 
PROT 1 	Principles of Crop Protection 	3 	2 	3 	CROP SCI 1 
ANIM SCI 2 	Introduction to Livestock and 
Poultry Production 	3 	2 	3 	ANIM SCI 1 
2nd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 201 	Post Harvest Handling and 
Seed Technology 	3 	2 	3 	CROP SCI 1 
& 2, CROP 
PROT 1&2 
ENGLISH 3 	Technical Writing 	3 	3 	0 	ENGLISH 2 
MATH 2 	Plane Trigonometry 	3 	3 	0 	MATH 1 
HUM 1 	Introduction to Humanities 	3 	3 	0 	
SOC SCI 4 	General Economics and 
Taxation with Financial 
Literacy 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 4 	Team Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 3 
	TOTAL 	26 	22 	12 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CROP 
PROT 2 	Approaches and Practices in 
Pest Management 	3 	2 	3 	CROP 
PROT 1 
AGRIC 103 	Agricultural Economics and 
Marketing 	3 	3 	0 	
AGRIC 202 	Slaughter of Animals and 
Processing their Products 	3 	1 	6 	ANIM SCI 2 
AGRIC 104 	Introduction to Ecological 
Agriculture 	3 	2 	3 	CROP SCI 2 
AGRIC 105 	Introduction to Enterprise and Entrepreneurship 	3 	2 	3 	LIT 1 
HISTORY 1 	Reading in Philippine History 	3 	3 	0 	
STAT 2 	Experimental Designs and 
Analysis 	3 	3 	0 	MATH 1&2 
SCIENCE 6 	Physics 1 	3 	2 	3 	
PATHFIT 4 	Team Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 3 
	TOTAL 	26 	20 	18 	
All students who satisfactorily completed the first two (2) years shall be awarded the Diploma in Agriculture Technology (DAT) which the students may use for immediate employment or application for TESDA Skills Certification subject to the requirement of the specific TESDA Training Regulation being applied for. (See Attachment A for matrix of equivalences) 
3rd Year, First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 106 	Methods of Agricultural 
Research 	3 	2 	3 	STAT 2 
SOIL SCI 2 	Soil Fertility, Conservation and Management 	3 	2 	3 	SOIL SCI 1 
 
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 203 	Beneficial Arthropods and 
Micro Organism 	3 	2 	3 	CROP 
PROT 1 
SCIENCE 2 	People and Earth’s Ecosystem 	3 	3 	0 	SCIENCE 1 
SOC SCI 1 	The Contemporary World 	3 	3 	0 	
SOC SCI 2 	Science, Technology, and 
Society 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 1 
AHL 3 	Philippine Popular Culture 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	21 	18 	9 	
3rd Year. Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 107 	Fundamentals of Genetics 	3 	2 	3 	CROP SCI 
1&2 
AGRIC 204 	Principles and Practices of Plant Breeding, Propagation and Nursery Management 	3 	2 	3 	CROP SCI 
1&2 
AGRIC 205 	General Physiology and 
Toxicology 	3 	2 	3 	CROP 
PROT 1&2 
AGRIC 206 	Animal Nutrition and Feeding 	3 	2 	3 	ANIM SCI 2 
SOIL SCI 3 	Soil Survey, Classification, and Land Use 	3 	2 	3 	
AHL 2 	Art Appreciation 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	18 	13 	15 	
4th Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
THESIS 	Undergraduate Thesis 	3 			AGRIC 106 
AGRIC 108 	Fundamentals of Agriculture 
Engineering 	3 	2 	3 	PHYSICS 1, 
MATH 1&2 
AGRIC 109 	Biotechnology and Society 	3 	3 	0 	ANIM SCI 
1, CROP 
PROT 1 
AGRIC 207 	Management of Extension 
Programs 	3 	2 	3 	AGRIC 102 
AGRIC 208 	Basics of Projects Study and 
Development 	3 	3 	0 	AGRIC 103 
AGRIC 209 	Agricultural Policy and 
Development 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 1, 
AGRIC 101, 
AGRIC 208 
	TOTAL 	18 	13 	6 	
166                   

4th Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AGRIC 210 	Agribusiness Commodity 
Systems3 	3 	3 	0 	AGRIC 103 
AGRIC 211 	Financial Management for 
Agri-Based Enterprise 	3 	3 	0 	AGRIC 103 
AGRIC 212 	Seminar A 	1 			
AGRIC 213 	Seminar B 	1 			
AGRIC 214 	Colloquium 	1 			
RIZAL 1 	Life and Works of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	
REVIEW 	Licensure Examination for 
Agriculture Review 	3 	3 	0 	
SOC SCI 3 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	18 	15 	0 	
 
Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information System (BSAIS) 
1st Year, First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AE 13 	Financial Accounting and 
Reporting 	3 	3 	0 	
BME 101-
102 	Total Quality Management 
(TOM) and Operations 
Management 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 11 	Managerial Economics 	3 	3 	0 	
ENGLISH 1 	Study and Thinking Skills 	3 	3 	0 	
AHL 1 	Understanding the Self 	3 	3 	0 	
HISTORY 1 	Readings in the Philippines 
History 	3 	3 	0 	
MATH 1 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Physical Fitness and Health 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	26 	26 	0 	
1st Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AE 14 	Conceptual Framework and 
Accounting Standards 	3 	3 	0 	AE 13 
AE 22 	Cost Accounting & Control 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 1 	Law on Obligations and 
Contracts 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 12 	Economic Development 	3 	3 	0 	
ENGLISH 2 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	ENGLISH 1 
SCIENCE 1 	Environmental Science 	3 	3 	0 	
FILIPINO 1 	Komunikasyon sa 
Akademikong Filipino 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 2 	Dance and Rhythmic 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 1 
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	26 	26 	0 	
1st Year, Summer 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
FILIPINO 2 	Pagbasa at Pagsulat sa Iba’t-
Ibang Disiplina 	3 	3 	0 	FILIPINO 1 
AHL 2 	Art Appreciation 	3 	3 	0 	AHL 1 
SOC SCI 1 	The Contemporary World 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	9 	9 	0 	

2nd Year First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AE 15 	Intermediate Accounting 1 	3 	3 	0 	AE 14 
AE 23 	Strategic Cost Management 	3 	3 	0 	AE 22 
AE 26 	Income Taxation 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 2 	Business Laws & Regulations 	3 	3 	0 	AE 1 
AE 18 	Financial Markets 	3 	3 	0 	
SOC SCI 2 	Science, Technology, and 
Society 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 1 
TECH 1 	Living in the IT Era 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 3 	Individual and Dual Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 2 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AE 20 	Introduction to Accounting 
Information System 	3 	3 	0 	AE 14 
AE 16 	Intermediate Accounting II 	3 	3 	0 	AE 15 
AE 25 	Business Taxation 	3 	3 	0 	AE 26 
AE 3 	Regulatory Framework and 
Legal Issues in Business 	3 	3 	0 	AE 2 
AE 19 	Financial Management 	3 	3 	0 	BME 102 
AE 4 	Management Science 	3 	3 	0 	AE 23 
LOGIC 1 	Business Logic 	3 	3 	0 	
SOC SCI 3 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 4 	Team Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 3 
	TOTAL 	26 	26 	0 	
2nd Year, Summer 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
RIZAL 1 	Life and Work of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	HISTORY 1 
SOC SCI 4 	Gender and Society 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	6 	6 	0 	
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PrE 1 	Project Management 	3 	3 	0 	
PrE 2 	Information Systems Analysis 
& Design 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 21 	IT Application Tools in 
Business 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 17 	Intermediate Accounting III 	3 	3 	0 	AE 16 
AE 6 	Accounting Research Methods 	3 	3 	0 	
AE 24 	Strategic Business Analysis 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	18 	18 	0 	

3rd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PrE 3 	Managing Information and 
Technology 	3 	3 	0 	PrE1 
PrE 4 	Information Systems 
Operations and Maintenance 	3 	3 	0 	
PrE 5 	Information Security and 
Management 	3 	3 	0 	PrE 1 
AE 9 	Statistical Analysis with 
Software Application 	3 	3 	0 	AE 21 
AE 5 	International Business and 
Trade 	3 	3 	0 	AE 3 
AE 10 	Governance, Business Ethics, 
Risk Management & Internal 	3 	3 	0 	PrE 1 
PrE 11 	Professional Elective – 
Business Analytics 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	21 	21 	0 	
4th Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AE 7 	Accounting Information System Internship (486 hours) 	6 	6 	0 	
AE 8 	Accounting Information 
System Research 	3 	3 	0 	AE 6 
	TOTAL 	9 	9 	0 	
4th Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture 	Lab 	
PrE 6 	Enterprise Resource Planning and Management 	3 	3 	0 	PrE 1 
PrE 7 	Data Warehouse and 
Management 	3 	3 	0 	PrE 5 
PrE 8 	Management Information 
System 	3 	3 	0 	BME 101 
BME 103 	Strategic Management 	3 	3 	0 	BME 102 
PrE 12 	Professional Elective – Updates in Information 
System 	3 	3 	0 	
SEMINAR 	Special Topics in Accounting 
Information System 	1 	1 		
	TOTAL 	16 	16 	0 	
Bachelor of Science in Criminology 
1st Year, First Semester 	
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
GE 1 	Understanding the Self 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 2 	Readings in the Philippines 
History 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 3 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 4 	Science, Technology, and 
Society 	3 	3 	0 	
EC 1 	Living in the IT Era 	3 	3 	0 	
CRIMINOL
OGY 1 	Introduction to Criminology 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Fundamentals of Martial Arts 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
1st Year, Second Semester 	
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
GE 5 	The Contemporary World 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 6 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 7 	Art Application 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 8 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	
CLJ 1 	Intro to Philippine Criminal 
Justice System 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 2 	Arnis and Disarming 
Techniques 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	20 	20 	0 	
2nd Year, First Semester 	
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
EC 2 	Gender and Society 	3 	3 	0 	EC 1 
PC 	Life and Works of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	
CDI 1 	Fundamentals of Investigation and Intelligence 	4 	4 	0 	
LEA 1 	Law Enforcement 
Organizations and 
Administration 	4 	4 	0 	
LEA 2 	Comparative Models in 
Policing 	3 	3 	0 	
CRIMINOL
OGY 2 	Theories of Crime Causation 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 1 
EC 3 	Philippine Popular Culture 	3 	3 	0 	EC 1 

2nd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PATHFIT 3 	First Aid and Water Safety 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 2 
	TOTAL 	25 	25 	0 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CA 1 	Institutional Corrections 	3 	3 	0 	
FORENSIC 
1 	Forensic Photography 	3 	2 	1 	
CFLM 1 	Character Formation, 
Nationalism, and Patriotism 	3 	3 	0 	
CDI 2 	Specialized Crime 
Investigation 1 with Legal 
Medicine 	3 	3 	0 	CDI 1 
FORENSIC 
2 	Personal Identification 
Techniques 	3 	2 	1 	
AdGE 	General Chemistry (Organic) 	3 	2 	1 	
CRIMINOL
OGY 3 	Human Behaviour and 
Victimology 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 1,2 
LEA 3 	Introduction to Industrial 
Security Concepts 	3 	3 	0 	LEA 1,2 
PATHFIT 4 	Fundamentals of 
Marksmanship 	2 	2 	0 	
	TOTAL 	26 	23 	3 	
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CLJ 2 	Human Rights Education 	3 	3 	0 	CLJ 1 
CFLM 2 	Character Formation with 
Leadership and DecisionMaking Management, and 
Administration 	3 	3 	0 	CFLM 1 
CDI 3 	Specialized Crime 
Investigation 2 	3 	3 	0 	
FORENSIC 
3 	Forensic Chemistry and 
Toxicology 	5 	3 	2 	FORENSIC 
1,2 
CLJ 3 	Criminal Law (Book 1) 	3 	3 	0 	CLJ 1 
LEA 4 	Law Enforcement Operations and Planning with Crime 
Mapping 	3 	3 	0 	LEA 1,2,3 
CDI 4 	Traffic Management and 
Accident Investigation with 
Driving 	3 	3 	0 	CDJ 1,2 
CRIMINOL
OGY 4 	Professional Conduct and 
Ethical Standards 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 1,2,3 
	TOTAL 	26 	24 	2 	

					
3rd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CA 2 	Non-institutional Corrections 	3 	3 	0 	CA 1 
CLJ 4 	Criminal Law (Book 2) 	4 	4 	0 	CLJ 1,2,3 
CRIMINOL
OGY 5 	Juvenile Delinquency and 
Juvenile Justice System 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 
1,2,3,4 
FORENSIC 
5 	Lie Detention Techniques 	3 	2 	1 	FORENSIC 
1,2,3 
CDI 5 	Technical Report Writing 1 
(Technical Report Writing and 
Presentations) 	3 	3 	0 	CDI 1,2,3,4 
CDI 6 	Fire Protection and Arson 
Investigation 	3 	3 	0 	CDI 1,2,3,4 
	TOTAL 	22 	20 	2 	
4th Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CRIMINOLOGY 
PRACTICUM 1	Internship (On-The-Job 
Training 1) 	3 	3 	270 
Field 
Hours	
CA 3 	Therapeutic Modalities 	2 	2 	0 	CA 1,2 
CLJ 5 	Evidence 	3 	3 	0 	CLJ 1,2,3,4 
CRIMINOL
OGY 6 	Dispute Resolution and 
Crises/Incidents Management 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 
1,2,3,4,5 
CRIMINOL
OGY 7 	Criminological Research 
(Research Methods with 
Applied Statistics) 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 
1,2,3,4,5 
CDI 7 	Vice and Drug Education and 
Control 	3 	3 	0 	CDI 1,2 
3,4,5,6 
	TOTAL 	3 	3 	0 	
4th Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CRIMINOLOGY 
PRACTICUM 2	Internship (On-The-Job 
Training 2) 	3 	3 	270 
Field 
Hours	CRIMINOLOGY 
PRACTICUM 1 
FORENSIC 
6 	Forensic Ballistic 	3 	2 	1 	FORENSIC 
1,2,3,4,5 
CLJ 6 	Criminal Procedure and Court 
Testimony 	3 	3 	0 	CLJ 
1,2,3,4,5 
CRIMINOL
OGY 8 	Criminological Research 2 
(Thesis Writing and 
Presentation) 	3 	3 	0 	CRIMINOL
OGY 
1,2,3,4,5,6,
7 

4th Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture 	Lab 	
CDI 8 	Technical English 2 (Legal 
Forms) 	3 	3 	0 	CDI 
1,2,3,4,5,6,
7 
CDI 9 	Introduction to Cybercrime and Environmental Laws and 
Protection 	3 	2 	1 	CDI 
1,2,3,4,5,6,
7 
	TOTAL 	18 	16 	2 	
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Systems 
(BSIS) 
1st Year, First Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CC 100 	Introduction to Computing 	3 	2 	3 	
CC 101 	Computer Programming I 	3 	3 	3 	CCC 100 
ENGLISH 1 	Study and Thinking Skills in 
English 1 	3 	3 	0 	
AHL 	Understanding the Self 	3 	3 	0 	
MATH 1 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
HUM 1 	Introduction to Humanities 	3 	3 	0 	
FILIPINO 1 	Komunikasyon sa 
Akademikong Filipino 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Physical Fitness and Health 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	29 	27 	6 	
1st Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CC 102 	Computer Programming II 	3 	2 	3 	CC 101 
IS 101 	Fundamentals of Information 
Systems 	3 	3 	0 	CC 100 
ENGLISH 2 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	ENGLISH 1 
AHL 2 	Art Appreciation 	3 	3 	0 	AHL 1 
MATH 2 	Plane Trigonometry 	3 	3 	0 	MATH 1 
SCIENCE 1 	Environmental Science 	3 	3 	0 	
FILIPINO 2 	Pagbasa at Pagsulat sa Iba’tibang Disiplina 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 2 	Dance and Rhythmic 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	26 	25 	3 	
1st Year, Summer 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
AHL 3 	Philippine Popular Culture 	3 	3 	0 	
SOC SCI 2 	Science, Technology, and 
Society 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 1 
	TOTAL 	6 	6 	0 	

2nd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CC 103 	Data Structures and 
Algorithms 	3 	2 	3 	CC 102 
IS 102 	Professional Issues in 
Information Systems 	3 	3 	0 	2nd Year 
Standing 
IS 103 	IT Infrastructure and Network 
Technologies 	3 	2 	3 	IS 101 
BED 101 	Organization and 
Management Concepts 	3 	3 	0 	2nd Year standing 
ENGLISH 3 	Technical Writing 	3 	3 	0 	ENGLISH 2 
SCIENCE 2 	People and Earth’s Ecosystem 	3 	3 	0 	SCIENCE 1 
HISTORY 1 	Readings in the Philippine 
History 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 3 	Individual and Dual Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 2 
	TOTAL 	25 	25 	0 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
IS 104 	System Analysis and Design 	3 	2 	3 	IS 101 
BED 102 	Financial Management 	3 	3 	0 	BED 101 
HCI 1 	Human Computer Interaction 	3 	2 	3 	CC 100 
ISEL 1 	IS Professional Elective 1 	3 	3 	0 	2nd Year 
Standing 
STAT 1 	Introduction to Statistics 	3 	3 	0 	MATH 1 
SCIENCE 3 	Human Reproduction 	3 	3 	0 	SCIENCE 2 
SOC SCI 3 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 2 
PATHFIT 4 	Team Sports 	2 	2 	0 	PATH FIT 3 
	TOTAL 	23 	22 	6 	
2nd Year, Summer 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
					
SOC SCI 4 	General Economics & 
Taxation with Financial 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 3 
RIZAL 1 	Life and Works of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	6 	6 	0 	
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CC 104 	Information Management 	3 	2 	3 	CC 103 
IS 105 	Enterprise Architecture 	3 	2 	3 	IS 104 
IS 108 	IT Security and Management 	3 	3 	0 	3rd Year standing 
ISEL 2 	IS Professional Elective 2 	3 	3 	0 	ISEL 1 
BED 103 	Business Process 
Management 	3 	3 	0 	BED 102 

3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
					
QUAMET 	Quantitative Methods 	3 	3 	0 	STAT 
SOC SCI 5 	Religion, Religious Experience 
& Spirituality 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 4 
	TOTAL 	21 	19 	6 	
3rd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CAP 101 	Capstone Project I (System 
Proposal) 	3 	0 	0 	3rd Year standing 
IS 106 	IS Project Management II 	3 	3 	0 	IS 105 
IS 109 	Software Engineering 	3 	2 	3 	3rd Year standing 
BED 104 	Evaluation of Business 
Performance 	3 	3 	0 	BED 103 
BED 105 	Risk Management 	3 	0 	0 	BED 104 
ISEL 3 	IS Professional Elective 3 	3 	3 	0 	ISEL 2 
SOC SCI 6 	Gender and Society 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 5 
SOC SCI 7 	The Entrepreneurial Mind 	3 	3 	0 	SOC SCI 6 
	TOTAL 	24 	17 	3 	
4th Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
CAP 102 	Capstone Project II (System 
Implementation) 	3 	0 	0 	CAP 101 
IS 107 	IS Strategy, Management, and 
Acquisition 	3 	3 	0 	IS 106 
CC 105 	Application Development and 
Emerging Technologies 	3 	2 	3 	CC 104 
BED 106 	Business Analytics 	3 	3 	0 	BED 105 
ISEL 4 	IS Professional Elective 4 	3 	3 	0 	ISEL 3 
SEMINAR 	Special Topics in Information 
Systems 	1 	0 	0 	
	TOTAL 	16 	11 	3 	
4th Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PRACTICUM 	Practicum for Information 
Systems (486 hours) 	6 	0 	0 	
	TOTAL 	6 	0 	0 	
Bachelor of Early Childhood Education 
(BECEd) 
1st Year, First Semester 		
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PEC 1 	The Child and Adolescent 
Learner and Learning 
Principles 	3 	3 	0 	
PEC 2 	The Teaching Profession 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 1 	Child Development 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 1 	Understanding the Self (Gen. 
Psycho) 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 2 	Readings in the Philippine 
History 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 3 	Purposive Communication 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 1 	Movement Competency 
Training 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 1 	LTS/CWTS 1 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
1st Year, Second Semester 		
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PEC 3 	Facilitating Learning-
Centered Teaching 	3 	3 	0 	PEC 2 
ECE 2 	Health, Nutrition, and Safety 	3 	3 	0 	ECE 1 
GE 4 	Science, Technology, and 
Society (IT) 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 5 	The Contemporary World 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 6 	Mathematics in the Modern 
World 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 2 	Exercise-Based Fitness 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	
NSTP 2 	LTS/CWTS Serial No 	3 	3 	0 	NSTP 1 
	TOTAL 	20 	20 	0 	
2nd Year, First Semester 		
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ECE 3 	Foundations of Early 
Childhood Education 	3 	3 	0 	ECE 2 
PEC 4 	Foundation of Special and 
Inclusive Education 	3 	3 	0 	
PEC 5 	Technology for Teaching and 
Learning 	3 	3 	0 	

2nd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
					
ECE 4 	Play and Developmentally 
Appropriate Practices in Early 
Childhood Education 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 7 	Art Appreciation 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 8 	Ethics 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 9 	Life and Works of Rizal 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 3 	Choice of Dance, Sports, 
Martial Arts, Group Exercise, 
Outdoor and Adventure 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	PATHFIT 2 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
2nd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ECE 5 	Creative Arts, Music, and 
Movement in Early Childhood 
Education 	3 	3 	0 	ECE 4 
ECE 6 	Numeracy Development 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 7 	Inclusive Education in Early 
Childhood Setting 	3 	3 	0 	
PEC 6 	Building and Enhancing New 
Literacies Across the 
Curriculum 	3 	3 	0 	PEC 5 
GE 10 	Environmental Science 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 11 	Gender and Society 	3 	3 	0 	
GE 12 	Indigenous Creative Crafts 	3 	3 	0 	
PATHFIT 4 	Choice of Dance, Sports, 
Martial Arts, Group Exercise, 
Outdoor and Adventure 
Activities 	2 	2 	0 	PATH FIT 3 
	TOTAL 	23 	23 	0 	
3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ECE 8 	Children’s Literature 	3 	3 	0 	ECE 7 
ECE 9 	Assessment of Children 
Development Learning 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 10 	Literacy Development 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 11 	Social Studies in Early 
Childhood Education 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 12 	Technology for Teaching and 
Learning 2-Utilization of 
Instructional Technology in 
Early Childhood Education 	3 	3 	0 	

3rd Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
					
PEC 7 	The Teacher and the Community, School Culture and Organizational 
Leadership 	3 	3 	0 	
PEC 8 	Assessment of Learning 1 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 13 	Science in Early Childhood 
Education 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	24 	24 	0 	
3rd Year, Second Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units	Hours Per Week	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
PEC 10 	The Teacher and The School 
Curriculum 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 14 	Early Childhood Education 
Curriculum Models 	3 	3 	0 	ECE 13 
PEC 9 	Assessment of Learning 2 	3 	3 	0 	PEC 8 
ECE 15 	Guiding Children’s Behavior and Moral Development 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 16 	Infant and Toddler’s Program 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 17 	Early learning Environment 	3 	3 	0 	
FS 1 	Observation of TeachingLearning in the Actual School 
Environment 	3 	3 	0 	
	TOTAL 	21 	21 	0 	
4th Year, First Semester 
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
ST 1 	(Special Topic) Integrative 
Teaching Strategies 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 18 	Management in Early 
Childhood Education Program 	3 	3 	0 	ECE 17 
ECE 20 	Family, School, and 
Community Partnership 	3 	3 	0 	
ECE 21 	Content and Pedagogy in the 
Mother Tongue Based 
Multilingual 	3 	3 	0 	
FS  2 	Participation and Teaching 
Assistantship 	3 	3 	0 	FS 1 
	TOTAL 	15 	15 	0 	

4th Year, Second Semester 			
Course 
Code 	Descriptive Title 	Units 	Hours Per Week 	Pre/Co Requisite 
			Lecture	Lab 	
Teaching 
Internship 	Practicum 	6 	0 	0 	
ECE 19 	Research in Early Childhood 	3 	0 	0 	
	TOTAL 	9 	0 	0 	
 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE HYMN 
Lyrics & tune by: MR. JERMANDO LILIMAR D. RODRIGUEZ I. 
Our dream has now come true A school for us and our successors We will earn our ambitions For God’s Glory in Talibon 
Chorus: 
Forward Talibon Polytechnic College To reach our goals and our plans March on Talibon Polytechnic College T’wards development for our nation 
II. 
Our dear Alma Mater 
An academy for me and you Instrument for unity Building faith in the 
Almighty 
Chorus: 
Forward Talibon Polytechnic College To reach our goals and our plans March on Talibon Polytechnic College T’wards development for our nation 
Bridge: 
Let’s continue our journey Driven by our visions Climb every mountain Swim every sea Chorus: 
Forward Talibon Polytechnic College To reach our goals and our plans 
March on Talibon Polytechnic College T’wards development for our nation 
REVISION HISTORY 
Version 	Description/Changes 	Modified by 	Date 
4.0 	Updated Policies and Revision 
BOT Resolution No. 33, 
s.2024 	Student 
Handbook 
Committee 	01 
August 2024 
3.0 	Updated Policies and Revision 
BOT Resolution No. 33, 
s.2023 	OSAS 	9 August 2023 
2.0 	Updated Policies and Revision BOT Resolution No. 
33, s. 2021 	JAS 	26 
October 2021 
1.0 	Initial Creation 
(TPC STUDENT MANUAL BOT Resolution 
No. 21, s. 2019 Sponsored By: 
Hon. Avelino N. Puracan Date 
Approved: October 16, 2019) 	JDR 	12 July 
2019 
STUDENT HANDBOOK REVISION COMMITTEE 
Stanley Clark M. Dipay, PhD. 
College President/Chairman 
Members: 
Dioscoro A. Avergonzado PhD. Maria Fe P. Comahig, PhD. 
Giselo B. Cajes, PhD 
Jovito S. Gurrea, JD 
Flora A. Rosales, MABM
Dianne Zen A. Arradaza, RN, MAN 
Sheryl C. Cabubas, LPT 
Rochelle Marie B. Lofranco, LPT 
Gressa Ann M. Apale, RGC 
Niño Christopher D. Garcia Angelica Autida, RPm 
Divin Emerson Ligan, RPm 
Raul B. Polestico, RN 
Melyrose B. Orong, RL Jeany B. Garcia 
Lovely Joye F. Garcia 
Elvin D. Gulay 
Jillian Theresse Gurrea 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE POLICY AND GUIDELINES FOR LOCAL OFF CAMPUS 
ACTIVITIES 
ARTICLE I PURPOSE 
Section 1. As per CHED Memorandum 63, Series of 2017, on “Policies and Guidelines on Local Off-Campus Activities, on “Implementing Guidelines on the Conduct of Off-
Campus Activities, the Talibon Polytechnic College (TPC) created Policy and Guidelines, in compliance with the requirements of the Commission on Higher Education. These policies and guidelines serve as the basis for the conduct of all local off-campus activities for all students of the College. The content is an adaptation of the abovementioned CHED Memorandum and polish according to the needs of the students and the College. The inclusion of all departments in this policy specifies its importance and the desire of the College to unify and protect all students from any unnecessary incident in the conduct of all local Off-Campus activities. “In the Philippines, Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) ensure sustainable teaching and learning delivery process through the conduct of offcampus activities. These are activities conducted by HEIs to supplement and facilitate a more meaningful learning experience for students in addition to the regular instructional programs that are in accordance with specific degree program requirements. (Article I, CMO 63, s. 2017) ARTICLE II 
DEFINITION OF TERMS 
Section 1. For purposes of clarification, the following terms are duly defined as stipulated in Section 7, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017. 
1.	Approved curriculum - “refers to the curriculum duly approved by the HEI and duly noted by the CHED regional offices (CHEDROs).” (Section 7.1, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017)
2.	Curricular activities – “are required off- campus activities and are an integral part of the instructional program. All students are expected to attend the scheduled off-campus activity since it is part of the regularly scheduled class time.” (Section
7.2, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017)
A.	Educational Tour – “refer to off- campus learning activities involving mobility of students with the supervision of authorized personnel outside the premises of the institution which lasts for more than one (1) day, and involves relatively more places of destination than a field trip in accordance with specific degree program requirements.” (Section 7.2a, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017)
B.	Field Trip – “refer to off-campus learning activities involving mobility of students with the supervision of authorized personnel outside the premises of the institution but is of relatively shorter duration usually lasting for only one (1) day and with fewer places of destination.” 
(Section 7.2b, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
C.	Field 	Study/Experiential 
Learning/Related Learning Experience “refer to off-campus activities which are congruent to the learning outcomes of the course in terms of time and context. These activities require substantial off-campus learning as curriculum delivery.” 
(Section 7.2c, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
Coverage for Curricular activities includes the following: 
(Section 6.1, Article IV, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
a. Educational Tours/Field Trips
✓	“Visits to reputable firms or government sites and other areas identified by the concerned local government units (LGUs) safe for students; 
✓	Culture11a5nd arts related activities such as visits to museums, cultural sites, landmarks and other related venues; or 
✓	Plant industry visit, host training establishment visit, and other related visits. 
b.	Participation and/or attendance in degree program-relevant events.
c.	Field Study/Experiential Learning/Related Learning Experience”
3. Non-curricular activities – “refer to off- campus activities that are considered as non- curricular or nonprogram-based activities, among others, and are left to the discretion of the concerned HEI for the strategies of implementation as long as the safety of the students is duly ensured.” (Section 7.4, Article V, CMO 63, s. 2017)
 
Coverage for non-curricular activities includes the following: 
(As stipulated in Section 6.2, Article IV, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
a.	mission-based activities (e.g. retreat, recollection, etc.);
b.	conventions, seminars, conferences, symposiums, trainings and teambuilding;
c.	volunteer work including peer helper programs, relie1f1o6perations, community outreach and immersion;
d.	advocacy projects and campaigns;
e.	participation in sports activities;
f.	activities 	initiated	by 	recognized various student groups;
g.	interschool competitions/tournaments; or
h.	culture and arts performances and competition.”
ARTICLE III 
OBJECTIVES 
Section 1. The objectives of this policy underline the basis for the conduct of all Local Off-Campus activities of the 
College under the following provisions: (Section 5, Article 
III, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
1.	“access to efficient and interactive learning for students through meaningful off-campus activities as part of their program requirement embodied in the approved curriculum;” (Section 5.1, Article III, CMO 63, s. 2017)
2.	“quality off-campus activities necessary to the acquisition of relevant knowledge, skills, and values” (Section 5.2, Article III, CMO 63, s. 2017)
3.	“mechanisms to exercise due diligence prior, during and after the activities for safety and welfare of the students and HEIs’ personnel; and” (Section 5.3, Article III, CMO 63, s. 2017)
4.	“mechanisms for the implementation of parallel activities to those students who will be participating in the activity.” (Section 5.4, Article III, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
5.	To identify, differentiate and exclude the conduct of International Educational Tours or Field Trips and Internship/OJT/Practicum programs form this policy. Both are governed by separate CHED Memorandum and Guidelines.
ARTICLE IV 
GENERAL RULES 
Section 1. The conduct of all off-campus activities must be designed, determined and approved in accordance with the curriculum requirement and its relevance therein. 
Section 2. Compliance of all requirements as stipulated in CMO 63, s.2017 is a must for every student-participant of any Local Off-Campus activity. All requirements shall be submitted to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services two (2) weeks or 14 days before the conduct of the activity. The Activity Permit shall only be issued upon compliance of “before the activity” needed documents. The rest of the requirements shall be submitted immediately after the activity for compliance with CHED. “Failure to do so shall be a cause for imposition of the sanctions as provided in the CMO without prejudice to other liabilities under applicable laws.” (Section 11.1.b, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
1. Invitation to Seminars and Activities within the vicinity of Bohol province
a.	Refer to non-curricular activities mentioned above.
b.	A short checklist of requirements is provided for these types of activities.
c.	All documents must be submitted for approval three (3) days before the conduct of the off-campus activity.
Section 3. Each department shall identify a Personnel-in- Charge (PIC) of the different Off-Campus activities who must be a faculty or at least an employee of the College with the appropriate qualifications and experience, related to the said activity. An appropriate PIC-student ratio of 1:35-50 shall be STRICTLY observed at all times. (Section 11.2a.1.6, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
Section 4. To guarantee the safety and welfare of the students, only vehicles with updated and valid documents pertaining to registration, insurance coverage, driver’s license, updated/valid franchise with LTFRB or Travel and Tour Operator duly accredited by the Department of Tourism, whether owned by the College or provided by a third party or sub-contracting will be utilized during the conduct of all off-campus activities. (Section 11.1.e, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017). Public Transport can only used for one-day seminars within Municipalities of Ubay, Trinidad, Getafe, and Talibon. 
Section 5. Provision for parallel curricular activities and alternative non-curricular activities shall be afforded to students who will not be able to join. These parallel and alternative activities shall provide “similar acquisition of knowledge and/or competencies to achieve the learning objectives for students… and will not be made as substitute of a major examination for the purpose of compelling students to participate in the said activities.” (Section 11.1.h, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
Section 6. Student and learners with special needs or Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) shall be given due recognition and attention. (Section 11.1.i, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
Section 7. “Conduct off-campus activities that shall not unduly benefit or accommodate any of the establishments owned by HEI or CHED employees and officials or by an owner who is a relative within the third civil degree of consanguinity or affinity.” (Section 11.1.j, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
Section 8. Proper coordination with the Local Government Units, Non-Governmental Organizations and other venues must be complied with appropriate security clearance before the date of the trip for safety and security if available and needed. 
Section 9. Swimming and Unspecified Trips are strictly prohibited. 
Section 10. Alcoholic Drinks shall not be tolerated at all times during the conduct of local off-campus activities. Violation of this provision shall be subjected to disciplinary action. 
Section 11. Students and learners are required to board only the official vehicles used for the off-campus activity which will be parked at specified/designated areas. Drop off will also be only allowed at designated areas where parents/guardians will be waiting. 
Section 12. The personnel-in-charge shall assume full responsibility of the safety and security of the students during the entire off-campus trip. His/Her physical presence is expected at all times during the trip. 
Section 13. All other activities which are not related to the curriculum or non-curricular is strictly prohibited. 
ARTICLE V 
REQUIREMENTS 
(Section 11.2, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) 
Section 1. Following is the checklist of requirements to be submitted to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services by the different departments for the conduct of Local Off- Campus activities. Submission of documents must be done at least two (2) weeks or fourteen (14) days prior to the conduct of the activity for those off-Campus Activities held outside Bohol province. 
Section 2. A short list of requirements is also provided for short seminars and invitations within the limits of the province and must be complied at least one (1) week or seven (7) days prior to the conduct of the activity. 
Section 3. Special consideration will be given to seminars or activities within the province whose invitation are sent late and are necessary for the good of the students and university. The Student Affairs and Services will be the office who will determine its urgency and need. 
A. Before the Off-Campus Activity 
1. Course Requirement
a.	Course 	Syllabus 	and 	Comprehensive
Semestral Report– “reflects the relevance of requiring an educational tour and field trip.” (Section 11.2, a.1, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017). “The destination and schedule should be relevant to the subject matter.” (Section 11.2, a.1, Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017) In order to minimize cost, destinations for local off-campus activities should be conducted in nearby places.
b.	Certificate of Compliance – “duly notarized, certified correct by the personnel-in-charge (PIC), recommending approval by the VicePresident for Academic Affairs (VPAA) and duly approved by the President or Head of the HEI or his/her authorized representative.” (Annex A, CMO 63, s. 2017) Must be submitted to the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) two (2) weeks or fourteen (14) days prior to the conduct of the activity.
c.	Report of Compliance – must be submitted to the Office of the Student Affairs and Services together with the rest of the requirements two (2) weeks or fourteen (14) days prior to the conduct of the local off- campus activity.
2.	Destination: Itinerary of the trip – the Itinerary of the local off-campus activity must be clearly stated. Side trips are prohibited and strictly discouraged.
3.	Students’ Handbook/College Policy – The guidelines and requirements for the conduct of local off-campus activities shall be included in the Students’ Handbook/College Policy.
4.	Student Documents
a.	Parental/Guardian’s Consent – This document shall be duly signed by parent/guardian. Please be reminded that only students with signed
Parental/Guardian’s consent are allowed to join the activity. This is for strict compliance.
b.	Medical Clearance – This document shall be obtained from the College, Municipal Health Unit or any government Physician.
5.	Certificate of Appointment for Personnel-inCharge (PIC): As stated in Article IV, Section 6 of this policy, the Personnel-in-charge shall be appointed for specific local off-campus activities with appropriate documents and training.
6.	Duly approved Breakdown of Fund/Fees: “The fees to be collected from the students must be duly approved and disseminated to concerned stakeholders… there should be a breakdown of fund sources and other resources properly secured and accounted for.” (Section 11.2, a.1,
Article VII, CMO 63, s. 2017)
7.	LGU/NGO: Endorsement from the Local Government Unit/Non-Governmental
Organization of the venue of the local offcampus activity is necessary to ensure the safety of the students.
B.	During the Off-Campus Activity 
1.	Attendance and Safety
a.	List of participants must be checked by the Personnel-in-charge at the beginning, during and after the conduct of the offcampus activity.
b.	He/she also must guarantee that the seating capacity of each vehicle be respected.
c.	No student-participant shall be allowed to ride on the roof or on the boarding platform of the vehicle.
d.	Activities/program must be properly followed/adjusted if the need arises.
C.	After the Off-Campus activity 
1.	Learning Journals - Students are required to write a learning journal at the end of the local off- campus activity.
2.	Assessment Report/Evaluation Report – Faculty Assessment Report regarding the activity.
3.	Expenditure Report – Breakdown of Expenses
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE 
SCHOOL UNIFORM 
 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE  
SCHOOL UNIFORM (CRIMINOLOGY TYPE A) 
 
 
 
TALIBON POLYTECHNIC COLLEGE DRESS CODE 
 
STUDENT’S PLEDGE 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
I, _____________________________________ by virtue of my enrollment in Talibon Polytechnic College, by these presents hereby make manifest that I bind myself to the following stipulations: 
That I shall obey the rules and regulations of the College: 
That I submit myself to the disciplinary measure the TPC may impose for breach of the rules: 
That I shall not in any manner, participate, incite, organize, or support any activity against TPC that may be detrimental to its interests and that of any fellow students: 
That I will uphold academic freedom of my instructors/professors as promulgated in pertinent laws, which in part read, “Any student, teacher, professor, officer, or employee of the university, college or school who impedes, obstructs, prevents, or defeats the right and obligation of a teacher or professor to teach his subject to disciplinary action without prejudice to the criminal liability of the offender,”: 
That I shall strive to be an ideal student and work for the improvement and success not only for myself, but for the greater glory of my college, my country, and my God. 
In witness of the above, I hereby sign this pledge this ______ day of ________________________, 20___. 
________________________________________________ Student Signature Over Printed Name 
_______________________________________________ 
Parent/Guardian’s Signature Over Printed Name 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
I, [Student Name] __________________________________________________, hereby acknowledge that I have received a copy of the Talibon Polytechnic College Student Handbook and that I have read and understand its contents. I understand the rules, policies, and expectations outlined in the handbook and agree to abide by them. I understand that the handbook may be subject to change, and I agree to follow any updates or revisions. I am responsible for knowing and complying with the school's rules and policies. 
_________________________________________ Student’s Signature Above Printed Name 
_________________________________________ 
Date 
________________________________________ 
Year and Course 
_________________________________________ 
Contact Number 
________________________________________ Active Email Address 
________________________________________ 
Address 
